{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 What a Buddhist Bluesman Believes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i For the ministry student who asked honest questions}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b God and the meaning of life?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 I don\u8217't believe somebody\u8217's upstairs running the show. What I feel is more like\u8230 ? we\u8217're all swimming in the same ocean. Call it Buddha-nature, call it the Way. We ain\u8217't separate from it\u8212-we ARE it, just forgot.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Meaning of life? Wake up. That\u8217's it. Stop dreaming you\u8217're alone.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b What religion?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Buddhist. Mahayana. But I tip my hat to the mystics everywhere\u8212-Meister Eckhart, the desert fathers, the Taoists. Truth shows up in a lot of outfits.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Why I believe it?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sat down, got quiet, saw something. Practice works\u8212-less suffering, more peace. The fruit don\u8217't lie.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b What I think of Christianity?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Jesus? The man was a bodhisattva. Washing feet. Eating with sinners. \u8220"Love your enemies.\u8221" That\u8217's dharma, baby.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your Bible? Honest as the blues. Doesn\u8217't pretend everything\u8217's fine. Prophets wept. The world burns. Heavens roll up like a scroll. God ain\u8217't happy.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i But then}\u8212-Revelation 21. New heavens. New earth. God moves into the neighborhood. \u8220"I\u8217'm making all things new.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 That\u8217's not escape. That\u8217's {\i transfiguration}. I can sing along with that.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b My objections?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hell. Eternal torture for finite folks? That math don\u8217't add up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 And the \u8220"only way\u8221" talk. Universe is too big, truth too deep, to tell me one tribe got the only map.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Bible?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It\u8217's a library. Some of it\u8217's gorgeous\u8212-Ecclesiastes, the Psalms, the Sermon on the Mount. Some of it\u8217's rough. All of it\u8217's human beings wrestling with the holy. Same as us.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The resurrection?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Don\u8217't know what happened. Something changed those cowards into martyrs. Whether body got up or consciousness broke through\u8212-can\u8217't say.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What I know: the teaching that death ain\u8217't the last word? That love survives the grave? I believe that too.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b What would convert me?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ditch the eternal hellfire. Stop saying everybody else is lost. Show me communities producing more love than what I\u8217've found in the dharma.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 But honestly? I\u8217'm starting to think we ain\u8217't as far apart as the loud folks say. Your Revelation 21 sounds like the Pure Land descending. The bodhisattvas and the saints might be working the same field.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Last word:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You asked what I believe. Here it is. You asked with an open heart\u8212-that\u8217's rare.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The rolled-up scroll ain\u8217't the ending. It\u8217's the intermission. New earth\u8217's coming.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Maybe we\u8217're both heading home.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Peace, brother. \u55357 ?\u56911 ?\par}
