#   
  
Adversity is defined as a hardship or a misfortune. However, I choose to be an optimist in this situation. Therefore, I like to think of this situation as everything happens for a reason. That’s why for me adversity isn’t a misfortune but a calling saying that a better opportunity will present itself.  
For example, when the Corona Virus affected the U.S. and FBISD made the decision of cancelling school which in my opinion gave us the experience of how online school is it’s an experience we are sure to tell our kids and like ever thing else it of course has it’s downsides, like not everyone will participant, and not everyone's home has the capabilities of being able to facilitate a school at home. Luckily the school district was able to hand out laptops.  
Another example is when I was at Skate Therapy (Check Application) and my student started having a panic attack because he almost fell, our protocol was to hand them to their parent, but in this case the student was refusing to move and sat down. With my little experience of a mere 9 months I sat down next to him and talked him down and was able to get him to his parents. You're probably wondering what this has to do with adversity, but like I said things happen for a reason and if he hadn’t had a panic attack then I wouldn’t have gotten the promotion from apprentice to instructor.  
My personality as a straightforward person will help my peers by giving them an un- biased opinion. Another thing about me is that I have a lot of patience from building all those Legos with include but not limited to the LEGO Taj Mahal (6923 pieces), Lego Rough Terrain Crane (4057 pieces). Another trait and possibly my most important, Leadership, earlier I was talking about the incident that happened at Skate Therapy and due to that, I was given the responsibility of making sure the skates are tied correctly and leading warm-ups which led to me leading my own group of apprentices on the ice.  
Like I said at the beginning everything happens for a reason and I feel that this experience in NJHS will be great for me and I will learn a lot from this opportunity.  
