Amina 8/28/19  
Math homework and review  
  
Self selected books with book reports  
  
* Open the book report with the name, author, genre of the book, and published date.  
* Next, include a one-or-two sentence summary of the book, its setting, and its theme.  
* In the main body of the book report describe the characters of the book, the purpose of the book, and the plot. You could trace a character's experience throughout the book, analyze a [motif](http://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-motif.html) or theme of the book, or [juxtapose](http://www.yourdictionary.com/juxtapose) one character's experience with another's.  
* In the closing paragraph, summarize important points, or what you have learned. Would you recommend this book?  
Make sure you clearly write each element in an organized fashion: separate the information into short paragraphs, use [active voice](http://edit.yourdictionary.com/backend.php/article/3227/grammar.yourdictionary.com/style-and-usage/active-voice-adds-impact-to-your-writing.html) and descriptive language, and be sure to use [topic sentences](http://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-topic-sentences.html) and closing sentences for each paragraph so the reader will follow your main points.  
  
One of the main features of a book report is that it requires the student to be brief and make decisions about what information is important and not important. However, once you have covered the basic format you might also want to consider including:  
* Information about how you chose the book in the introduction. Have you read books by this person before? Is it a genre that you like? Was it a gift, a recommendation, or an assigned book?  
* A personal reflection on the book in the conclusion. Can you draw any comparisons between a character in the book and yourself or someone in your own life? Does the plot remind you of something that has happened to you, or a story you heard about in the news? Were any of the themes of the book especially touching or motivating?  
* Citations for specific pages in the book. While not required in all cases, [citations](http://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-annotated-bibliography.html) are really up to your teacher's needs. Ask your teacher whether you should use a certain format for citations.  
Specific points to remember about the [MLA format](http://examples.yourdictionary.com/mla-format-examples.html) include:  
* Use 12-point Times New Roman font for your body text.  
* Double space your text.  
* At the top left of your page, write your name, your teacher's name, your class, and the date the assignment is due. This should always be the first four lines of your report.  
* Center the title below your name and course information.  
* Indent paragraphs with a tab.  
* Page numbers go at the top right of your page. Use your last name, followed by the number of the page.  
  
Writing practice using story cubes  
Grammar exercises  
