## Briefing Doc: C Condos HOA Meeting - November 2023  
**Attendees:** William (President), Ahmed (Treasurer), Denise, Simon  
**Date & Time:** November [Specific date not provided], 6:30 PM  
**Date & Time:** November [Specific date not provided], 6:30 PM  
**Main Themes:**  
**Main Themes:**  
1. **Porter Responsibilities & Contracting:** The board discussed at length the role of the porter, comparing the existing arrangement with Jose to a potential new arrangement with Larry. Key considerations were cost-effectiveness, community benefit (supporting local workers), and ensuring quality work. The board decided to:  
* Define clear monthly expectations for the porter role.  
* Gather bids from both Jose and Larry for these duties by January 1st.  
* Establish a system for soliciting bids for larger quarterly projects.  
1. **Budget and Assessments:** The board reviewed the proposed budget for the next fiscal year. Concerns were raised about potential increases in building materials costs and ongoing maintenance needs (roof repairs, plumbing). Despite the need for future investments, the board ultimately decided to:  
* Maintain current assessment levels for the coming year.  
* Absorb potential minor budget increases through existing savings.  
* Explore special assessments in the future if necessary.  
1. **Security and Access Control:** The board acknowledged issues with the aging dial-up based access gate system and the need for a modern, reliable system. They discussed:  
* Allocating $10,000 - $15,000 in the budget for a new system.  
* Exploring options like Wi-Fi based clickers, app-based systems, and easy-tag readers.  
* The benefits of a system that tracks entry and exit for security and potential damage recovery.  
1. **Property Maintenance & Repairs:** Several maintenance issues were addressed, highlighting the need for proactive maintenance and a streamlined process for resident reporting:  
* **Fence repairs:** The west fence project is underway with Larry. The board will consider Larry for the north fence repair after evaluating his work on the west side.  
* **Trash enclosures:** Repairing and improving trash enclosures, including adding a gate to the north fence, is a priority.  
* **Concrete repairs:** The board agreed to solicit bids for concrete repairs, prioritizing the safety issues around the northwest corner trash enclosure.  
* **Landscaping:** The board agreed to have their landscaper address the overgrown area outside the property gate to maintain aesthetics and reduce pest issues.  
* **Extermination:** Concerns about rats, mice, and skunks were discussed. The board agreed to consult with the current exterminator about additional preventative measures and trapping.  
* **Tree Removal:** The board approved the removal of a dead tree and will solicit bids for cleaning and addressing the remaining stump.  
1. **Resident Compliance and Communication:** The board discussed strategies for improving resident compliance with HOA rules, particularly regarding dryer vent cleanings and noise complaints. Key decisions included:  
* Developing a formal policy for dryer vent cleaning compliance, including a potential fine structure.  
* Distributing a letter to residents outlining the new policy and associated fines.  
* Encouraging residents to report specific maintenance issues to the work order team for faster resolution.  
1. **Board Roles and Future Meetings:** The board discussed the need for a fifth member and agreed to consider potential candidates. They also:  
* Re-affirmed the existing board member roles (William as President, Ahmed as Treasurer, Denise as Vice President, Simon as Secretary).  
* Tentatively agreed to hold virtual meetings for the next few months, re-evaluating the need for in-person meetings as necessary.  
* Discussed the possibility of a resident holiday gathering.  
**Important Quotes:**  
* **On supporting local workers:** "I want some of this money moving back into our community. That's really what my goal is." - William  
* **On balancing cost and quality:** "If we're going for the lowest bid, we're gonna get the lowest quality work." - Denise  
* **On the need for a new access gate system:** "Right now, we don't know who's coming and going… if somebody hits the gate or forces the gate open, we don't know who it is." - [Property Manager]  
* **On potential budget challenges:** "If the new administration goes through with the tariffs that he's promising… that's gonna affect building materials." - [Property Manager]  
* **On resident communication:** "Complaints we don't listen to, but if they're gonna be specific… tell the work order team." - William  
**Action Items:**  
* [Property Manager] to:  
* Define monthly porter expectations and gather bids from Jose and Larry by January 1st.  
* Revise the budget reflecting the board's decisions and circulate for approval.  
* Gather bids for a new access gate system.  
* Consult with the exterminator about pest control options.  
* Get bids for tree removal and stump grinding.  
* Gather bids for concrete repairs.  
* Draft a dryer vent cleaning compliance policy and distribute a letter to residents.  
* Address contractor adherence to working hour restrictions with Monarch.  
* Board members to:  
* Consider candidates for a fifth board member.  
* Distribute printed dryer vent cleaning letters to residents.  
* Approach Josh about potentially organizing a resident holiday gathering.  
* Residents to:  
* Report specific maintenance issues to the work order team.  
* Comply with the new dryer vent cleaning policy once it is in place.  
This briefing doc provides a summary of the key discussion points and decisions made during the November 2023 C Condos HOA meeting. It is intended to inform absent board members and interested residents and serve as a reference for future action.  
