Greetings. I'm looking to make your books into movies. I solicit many Entertainment Companies such as Netflix, Sony Pictures, Disney, Universal Pictures, FOX, ABC, and many more. Greetings. If you are an author and really having trouble selling books then I can help!! I'm not a scam, and apologize if you have been in the past. How can someone help you sell books that has not sold their own books?  Why are you working with people because you want to be a part of a group? A group of low selling authors makes no sense from a business perspective. You need to work with me because I have education, experience, and real connections to the industry. I have worked with many famous authors, major publishing companies, and related industry people. Please consider me for all your publishing, editing, advertising, and tv film solicitations. Yes I charge fees upfront but they are very reasonable.  Get your name known by readers! Increase your book sales!! Get your book made into a movie!!! Hire me a professional marketing expert!!!!  I'm very Affordable promotion $99 one week, $199 two weeks, $299 three weeks, $399 four weeks, $599 six weeks, 60 days $799, 90 days $1199, 180 days $2399. Additional fees for contacting Major Film & TV,  Major Publishing Companies, and Major Entertainment people may apply. Greetings. I work with Publishing, Film, TV, and Entertainment companies Worldwide that have money to invest in authors. Looking for books to make into movies. I can increase your book sales!!!!! I would like to help you. I have 23 years working with clients and companies like Harper Collins, Harlequin, Simon & Schuster, Google, Amazon Prime, CBS, Fox, Viacom, Disney, and others. Nice to meet you. I am a computer engineer and marketing specialist. I have worked with Terry McMillian, Eric Jerome Dickey, Maya Angelou, and others. Authors Books To Movies. Greetings. This is Myron Grace CEO of Screenworks Entertainment. Please allow me to help you increase book sales. SUCCESS. Do you need a submission to a Major Publisher? Brand Development, Do you need a personal assistant? Pre-promotions and sales. Do you need book sales? Do you need a website? Need Promotions? Need an Editor? Need a Publishing Representative? Need a ghostwriter? Need a Movie TV Script written? Need a writing coach? More than 3695 clients. Who is Myron Grace? I am aU. S. Navy Veteran. I Graduated with a Four Year Degree in Psychology from Cleveland State University, Studied Law in Michigan at Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Studied a Master's Degree in Computer Network Administration at The University of Phoenix and Capella University. Studied Non-Violence At The Martin Luther King Center for Non Violence in Atlanta Georgia with Coretta Scott King. Currently I own Worldwide Digital Stream the largest Independent Radio Network in America. I am also currently the CEO of Screenworks Entertainment. I have helped sell more than 6.4 million books. I can work with any budgeting. Reach me for all your Promotion services at +1(440)902-1668, Tvpilots@yahoo.com, (www. screenworksentertainment .net)......  
