I have been practicing this Buddhism for almost 8 years. I gained my greatest insight to this practice just a few years ago where my life drastically changed for the better. I wasn't practicing at the time, but months later I realized it was all because of the prayers and causes I set forth years ago before my Gohonzon and have now witnessed fruition.   
  
I currently have the absolutely laziest practice. I practice 2 hours daily by turning on Chant Buddy with the audio on and put it under my pillow, so I can hear it without disturbing my husband while we continue sleeping. I'm very fortunate to receive such abundant benefit from this simple practice.   
  
When I do practice in front of the Gohonzon, which isn't very often,  maybe once every other week, it's such a profound experience. I see the Gohonzon in three dimensions. The characters seem to lift from the page while others receed, so it looks like they are all floating around the center. I've explained to others how this Gohonzon is our very soul being shown to us. The gods of the four corners of the universe are unraveling my soul and exposing it to me and with the protective forces in the universe are there to protect me.   
  
To prepare for this conference, I cut back on my chanting by cutting back on using my chant buddy. Let me tell you, I feel the presence of the protective forces in my life most every day. Mostly when I drive. I've been protected from accidents or my path has been changed by unseen forces. Even my speech or words as I teach. My enlightenment continues to progress/grow. Everyday I'm grateful to have encountered this Buddhism. Do I think I have a perfect practice, not at all. I have the laziest practice ever. Do you know of a lazier practice? Certainly there is room for improvement.   
It has been a long term goal to buy a house. After having lunch with one of my seniors Houston members. He shared with me guidance from the New Human Revolution of a member in France and words given to him from Daisaku Ikeda. After reading his excerpt I had a clear vision of success for my goal of buying my spouse and mine Kosen-Rufu Palace.   
  
One thing I've witnessed from other leaders in how they use their bodies to communicate. They nod in positive affirmation with not only with their head but also with their shoulders and back. Their poise and tone have been one of total conviction.   
