  
  
  
March 11, 2023,  
  
**YOU CAN ACHIEVE ANYTHING YOU SET YOUR MIND TO.**  
*You have the power to make your most cherished dreams a reality - with guts, determination, a little faith in yourself - and your alignment with the Universe’s energy, absolutely anything is possible.*  
  
  
March 12, 2023  
  
**TAP INTO YOUR DEEPEST DESIRES**  
*Trust in your divine guidance and see the beauty of releasing your expectations. Allow yourself to be present in the moment and recognize that no one else can define your life's purpose. Instead, embrace the faith within you and the divine plan that awaits.*  
  
  
**Today’s Affirmation:***  "I am so grateful for the new blessings and financial abundance on its way to me. I am so thankful for the opportunity to bring my ideas to life and be rewarded for sharing my unique gifts."*  
  
  
**YOUR STRUGGLES DO NOT DEFINE YOU. WITHOUT THEM, YOU WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO LEARN AND GROW. EMBRACE THEM AS A VALUABLE PART OF YOUR JOURNEY.**  
  
Keep your faith strong, even in times of uncertainty and upheaval. By staying strong in your faith and trusting in the goodness of the universe, you'll find hope and inspiration  
  
*March 21, 2023,*  
  
“You are an artist at heart with a powerful imagination. Your path will lead you to unfold your greatest creative gifts, inspiring others and leading you to new heights!”  
  
Learning the benefits of expressing enthusiasm and optimism will take you far.  
As a born communicator, your wit helps others see the positive in situations.  
Your creative flair is a trademark, so be sure to bring it to everything you do.  
You have what it takes to be successful in any artistic arena, from design to dance, writing, acting, speaking, or any occupation where you can encourage and motivate.  
  
You are destined for greatness when it comes to diplomacy, empathy and peace-making among others.  
Your natural sensitivity and insightfulness will take you far, and you are a natural diplomat!  
Be sure to seek balance in all that you do, especially when it comes to how you express your ideas.  
  
Rather than becoming hurt or resentful, choose to activate your destiny by building cooperation, compromise and understanding. In other words: become the peacemaker. Since you were born to relate to others, you are meant to bring people together.  
  
You are naturally courageous, an exceptional achiever and do best when not waiting for others to keep up with you. Self-sufficiency and standing on your own two feet are not negotiable for you.  
And while you may indeed share your life with others, too many demands on your time and energy are bound to drag you down.  
Leadership is fulfilling for you so never let anyone tell you to get behind the pack! You will be successful in any career that lets you engage your pioneering spirit, courage and determination.  
