Part One: Fuckpuppy to the MuscleGods  
  
  
Chapter One: The Arrival  
  
  
It’s not always easy to get what you want. It’s also not easy to figure out what you want. There are too many distractions and so much information trying to convince you what you need. It’s hard to have the strength to sift through it all. I ended up in life with a series of sub-optimal choices. Even so, some friends and relatives were still jealous of my choices compared to theirs. The grass is always greener on the other side, as they say. At least my choices were leading to a safe life. A comfortable life provided the planet didn’t burn up in another twenty years. But maybe a bit boring and lonely in all honesty.  
  
  
Of course, some drama would invariably crop up at work. I may have said the wrong thing, or someone decided to interpret something I said negatively. Or I simply put my foot in my mouth, drawn to stupidity like a moth to a flame. There certainly were plenty of nights that I replayed the minor conflicts at work endlessly, ...so much time spent on nonsense that basically went nowhere. And yet, time after time, I would get hooked. Pointless drama is addicting. Maybe it is a cure for boredom. Or just a useless trick of our monkey minds.  
  
  
I was in my house a little after 9 PM, stoned on the sofa and surfing the net while I watched TV. Nothing unusual. I had to work the next day yet again, so my aim was to unwind. I lived on my own. But I was used to that. I moved to a small city to pursue my career, even if that meant having to sacrifice my social life. There weren’t many gay men to connect with in my town. None that were easy to find. But I was open to the possibility of meeting someone and went to the gym regularly. I accepted solitude and, secretly, enjoyed it. I came from a family with a lot of drama, so I found peace and quiet comforting. Maybe I distanced myself from others more than I needed to. Maybe the peace I experienced was good for me.  
  
  
Suddenly, I felt jerked around as if I were having a seizure. I was breathing and conscious and then noticed I was really floating in the air. I swallowed deeply and spun, then stopped, and felt a massive rush in my head like when you stand up too fast. Then I passed out. After what felt like only minutes, I woke up and found myself lying on top of a large, soft table/bed in a sterile lab. I was fully awake, but felt disoriented and small on the cushioned surface. It seemed like they made it for someone twice my size, maybe 8 ft tall. The pair of gray 2xist briefs I was lounging in at home were neatly folded beside me, cleaned and very much real.  
  
Still feeling cloudy, I could discern a few people moving toward me. As they approached, I noticed they wore dark glasses, had fine fur-like hair, and were grayish with rodent-like features. They were slender, and shorter than me at slightly over 5 feet. Their ears looked like giant mice, and they had a non-threatening, almost comical, presence despite being engaged in a professional purpose. They raced around making excited, high-pitched sounds. Despite feeling anxious, I found them amusing. But I also knew something strange had just happened. The technicians were working on equipment I had never seen before. But I found nothing odd with that, I wasn’t interested enough in the health field to be up to date on its technology. The workers may have also just been in costume. However, after having watched a lot of science fiction in my day, I got a sneaking suspicion I was quite far from home.  
  
  
A while later I noticed a few larger, more menacing figures come closer toward the bed. The grayish folk scattered and disappeared. I began to get my bearings and saw things a bit more clearly as a wave of fear engulfed me. Three men came toward me, and they were large and imposing but seemed human. As they moved closer, I thought, “Shit!” And my heart started beating faster while the fear subsided, but my adrenaline continued to surge in overdrive.  
  
  
The men were enormous, super-fit, and damned handsome. They had incredibly muscular bodies under their lab coats. They were tall. Taller than any men I was used to seeing. They must have been close to 7 feet each, with massive, bulging round shoulders as wide as walls and comparatively narrow waists. Their chests were huge, with biceps that stretched the sleeves of the thin, silk-like cloth of their lab coats. They looked like superheroes.  
  
  
A little further down from their jackets I noticed their baskets and watched as their groins swole and pressed against tight, spandex-like pants. Cords laced their crotch areas and secured their waists like football pants. Their clothing, although serious and professional-looking, was fashionable and designed to complement their well-developed physiques. One had royal blue tights with an embossed jacquard design and a black cord. He also wore a yellow mesh shirt that hugged and defined his thick and hairy chest. The second wore black tights and a gray shirt with a deep V-neck that revealed his huge and perfectly sculpted pecs. A field of short, light brown hair had grown on them. The third was smooth and wore similar black pants and a dark gray, almost transparent shirt under his coat. He turned and I could see the black fabric entered between and defined the beautifully round muscle of his large, dimpled butt cheeks. Like those of a well-muscled, giant male ballet dancer.  
  
  
I was naked on the bed and grew a boner as I watched them come closer. I looked along my much smaller body and saw my smooth chest was still full and squared, my 6-pack was marginally visible, and my legs were nicely shaped and defined. I was well-worked out; I had not shrunk. There was at least a foot of space above my head and below the heels of my bare feet, and a couple of feet of space on either side of me, but the table/bed was massive. As much as I fought against it, the blood continued to flow into my exposed, 7-inch cock and I mindlessly stroked it as I attempted to hide it. They noticed how I was looking at them and I felt embarrassed. They glanced at each other, then peered down at me and grinned at my pathetic attempt to hide my boner. The one with the exposed chest reached into his pants and adjusted his big dick for greater comfort. I watched mesmerized. The thought flashed in my mind of how I wanted to go down on it, or at least have him rub it against me. I pretty much forgot I had just been abducted.  
  
  
The one in royal blue reached over with his massive hand and gently stroked me from my pec down my right leg. He wanted to feel the hardness of my body and softness of my skin. I gave in to the fact my exposed dick was full, hard, and pointed upward. They seemed thrilled and I smiled back at them, excited despite my uncertainty and anxiety. I enjoyed being touched and wanted the superman to do it more. To them, they hit the jackpot. Those three giant musclemen craved nothing more than to kiss, cuddle and fuck me there on the spot. Despite their overwhelming interest, they were restrained, and I remained unsure, still a patient on a hospital bed, or a prisoner at their mercy. Little did I know they were a small part of a larger plan, and there was much more in store.  
  
  
In retrospect, I now realize they were an advance crew of scientist-physicians who evaluated those brought through a wormhole to their world. They were there to determine if the humans coming through met their target criteria. If so, they would act as ‘hosts’ to the ‘traveler’. The initial evaluation at the lab also mined my genetic material to integrate it into their reproductive process. Their objective here was to enhance their genetic diversity. Varied human gene stock was guaranteed by their focus on gay men influenced by sthenolagnia, or muscle worship, being the sexual attraction to the display of strength or male muscular development. This attraction cuts across most human cultures and influences both gay men and heterosexual women but is not often expressed openly by Earthmen. However, it was behavior the Abderans were able to zero in on through their technology.  
  
  
Returning to Earth was impossible. The wormhole I came through went in one direction and we were half a universe away. However, this world carefully selected targets through observation to find the most compatible candidates to avoid ‘mistakes’, and waste resources. Recently, they became better at remote observation and targeting. They could also access any electronic database from Earth and increasingly understood our world. As a result, the advance technicians communicated with me in broken English.  
  
Part of their purpose was to teach their language and introduce the ‘traveler’, me in this case, to their world and way of life. They also assessed ‘travelers’ for their potential to appreciate the most physically developed men who were celebrated in their civilization. If the ‘traveler’ were gay and attracted to their champions, or could learn to be attracted to them, they would be prepared for a potential coupling. These men would be twice the ‘traveler’s’ size, exceptionally strong, and would not speak any Earth languages.  
  
It was a plum job for these ‘hosts’. They were not part of the elite, but they were among their society’s top scientists, and all were on track to elite status. Their job was a rare opportunity to meet and interact with the smaller human ‘travelers’ who were their sexual ideal. For my first few weeks these three scientists, who were tall, massive, and handsome competition-level bodybuilders, would become my teachers and lovers. Their names were Stanj (pronounced “staa-nish”), Ruud (pronounced “rood”), and Dzaan (pronounced “Jaan”). I am called Greg.  
  
  
It now seemed like many hours had passed since I woke up in their lab. They gave me some odd-looking food which was surprisingly delicious. I watched the three tall and fantastically beautiful men move about as I ate. When their tests seemed to wind down, they removed their lab coats as if to show themselves off. Stanj was in the royal blue and yellow shirt. He had short, dark brown hair and a remarkably good-looking face that was wide and angular. His thick, soft beard outlined his jaw, crept up his cheeks, and settled into a crisp goatee. His otherworldly blue eyes matched his pants and contrasted with his black hair. The man was stunning, god-like even, and ridiculously beautiful. He had a determined but gentle look to him, like a failingly anonymous Clark Kent.  
  
He looked to be in his late 30s, was almost 7 feet tall and his body was beyond anything from a Mr. Olympia contest. His size and symmetry reached further than what I thought possible as perfect and attractive. I figured he could be over 360 lbs. and was exactly twice my size. He looked strong, stronger than any human ever. The size of his body parts was fully proportionate, built from lean muscle mass. His shoulders were round like bowling balls and double my width, while he tapered to a 36-inch waist. His biceps were enormous at over 27 inches and when he flexed as he moved, I could see his arms were larger than either my head or even his. I couldn’t help  
