SGI can be a hit or miss. I've quit the SGI several times. I feel fortunate to have encountered them. They taught me how to live the most amazing life. I was first given a Gohonzon in 1983 after being kidnapped in Portland, OR and taken to some temple in Seattle. I stopped practicing shortly after and hung the Gohonzon proudly on my college dorm wall. George Williams, a famous Nichiren-Shoshu Leader at the time, visited me and said it would be better for me to give it back because it’s not intended to be displayed as a piece of art. I protested and thanked him for his visit.  
Over the next few decades, I learned about many schools of Buddhism and practiced with each of them. Eventually I lost my Gohonzon. Maybe someone walked off with it. Didn’t care at the time .  
Fall of 2010, I was reintroduced to the SGI. I was given another Gohonzon and practiced diligently for months with no results, so I quit. A few months later, because of a good friend whom I’ll call, Bodhisattva Perceiver of the Worlds’ Sounds, helped me to understand the true meaning of this practice. He worked hard on building a positive friendship with me. For three years I had this on again off again relationship with my SGI practice. Nothing to show actual proof of practice until I landed my first job after being unemployed for almost 10 years. Then I got a a brand new car gifted to me. I was dedicated. Until I was getting a lot of dysfunctional pressure from my team leadership. At that point, I walked away from their madness and returned my Gohonzon. My dear friend never gave up on me and counseled my leaders the same. After a year or so, I came back and my Gohonzon was Restored yet again I quit over their madness.  
One day my dear friend, Perceiver Of The Worlds’ Sounds called to tell me my district was to get Championship status and subtly pleaded for me to attend. I had never heard my friend use such a tone. At this time in my life, I had achieved great success. I had my own business, my family relationships were better than ever before. Life was fantastic. (Fast forward to 2021, still is!) My spouse told me I should go just to say thank you for all the great things they taught me. I did. I am an active friend  
I understand people are not perfect despite our best efforts. And maybe we shouldn’t try so hard.  
Daisaku Ikeda taught me, Nichiren’s teachings are clear. I regularly study the Goshos and the Lotus Sutra. I attend monthly meetings at the district level and support my friends when they face challenges. The answer to our problems lie within our Own life. Hope for a positive outcome from our actions is essential. It all boils down to “our actions mean something “  
Our relationship with the Gohonzon is a process like any relationship. Trust in your process  
I hope you find my experience helpful. And thank you for the opportunity to share.  
Updated June 4th, 2020: Profound changes have taken place within my Chapter over the last few months. My friends have also changed within their hearts. According to the Encouragement chapter of the Lotus Sutra, there are three kinds of enemies we will encounter. The first one being ignorant and arrogant laypeople. I believe arrofantastic laypeople today are those who claim to be Buddhists but who do not actually know for themselves the teachings of the Buddha as taught in the sutras and who base their understanding on the views and opinions of their leaders, who themselves may not have a deep understanding of the teachings of the Buddha but who present their own ideas as Buddhism. These people then close their minds to any who try to point out what the sutras actually teach and instead cling to what they have read in secondary sources or to teachings given by some charismatic leader they have chosen to follow.  
This kind of arrogant ignorance has become systemic throughout my district and chapter. I haven't seen anything better at conferences either. They will not mix their arrogant ignorance with the truth.  
Case in point, the liturgy. Members should have the freedom to recite it in the people's native tongue in the privacy of their own home. When the Buddha's monks asked to preserve his teachings in a more sophisticated language such as Sanskrit, the Buddha objected and said his teachings should be recited in the native language of the people. We need to know and learn what we are reciting. By reciting the liturgy in our native language, we benefit even greater from its teachings.  
This is not the only case in point. The abandonment of respectful dialog between members. Abandoning truth for hearsay. Marking up a lie to prove a point, Sophistry, Etc.  
I have withdrawn my financial support from the SGI. I've replaced my SGI Gohonzon with a better more accurate, Nichiren inscribed, one.  
I continue to study Nichiren's writings, other Buddhist and non-Buddhist teachings and chant before my Gohonzon. I'm willing to engage others in peaceful respectful dialog to expound shared values and share common truths, but I will have nothing to do with arrogant Sophists. I no longer follow that path. NMHRGK  
