<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
  <title>Chapter One: The Opening</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../CSS/styles.css"/>
</head>
<body class="chapter">
  <article>
    <h1>CHAPTER ONE: THE OPENING</h1>

    <p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">Blues Interpretation from Classical Chinese by Kumārajīva</p>

    <h2>THE GATHERING</h2>

    <p>Listen now, this is what I heard with my own ears.</p>

    <p>One time—and ain't it always one time when truth comes calling—the Buddha was staying up on Vulture Peak Mountain<a class="noteref" id="ch1note1ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note1"><sup>[1]</sup></a>, right outside the city called King's House (Rajagriha). And he wasn't alone, no sir. He had twelve thousand monks with him, every last one of them a brother who'd made it through to the other side<a class="noteref" id="ch1note2ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note2"><sup>[2]</sup></a>.</p>

    <p>These weren't no beginners, you understand. These were folks who'd walked the long hard road and come out clean. They'd dried up all the leaking wounds of craving. They'd burned out every last bit of that fever we call desire. They'd gotten what they came for, broke every chain that binds a person to this wheel of suffering, and their minds were finally free—free like a bird that's been caged all its life and somebody finally opens the door.</p>

    <p>Let me tell you their names, 'cause names matter when you talking about the ones who made it through:</p>

    <p>There was Ājñāta-Kauṇḍinya<a class="noteref" id="ch1note3ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note3"><sup>[3]</sup></a>, the first one to understand what the Buddha was laying down. There was Mahākāśyapa, that stern old man who knew how to live with nothing. There was Uruvilvā-Kāśyapa and his brothers Gayā-Kāśyapa and Nadī-Kāśyapa—three brothers who all found the way. There was Śāriputra, sharp as a razor, and Mahā-Maudgalyāyana, who could work wonders. There was Mahā-Kātyāyana, who could preach, and Aniruddha, who could see what others couldn't. There was Kapphina and Gavāmpati and Revata and Pilindavatsa and Bakkula and Mahā-Kauṣṭhila and Nanda and Sundarananda and Pūrṇa-Maitrāyaṇīputra, the one who could really teach, and Subhūti, who understood emptiness like breathing, and Ānanda, who remembered everything the Buddha ever said, and Rāhula, the Buddha's own son.</p>

    <p>These were the famous ones, the ones everybody knew about, the ones who'd gone all the way.</p>

    <p>And there were two thousand more—some still learning, some already done with learning—all walking that path.</p>

    <p>And Mahāprajāpatī Gautamī, the nun who raised the Buddha when his mama died, she was there with six thousand sisters following her. And Yaśodharā, the one who used to be the Buddha's wife before he left to find the truth, she was there too with her own followers.</p>

    <p>But that ain't all. No sir, that ain't even half of it.</p>

    <p>There were eighty thousand bodhisattvas<a class="noteref" id="ch1note4ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note4"><sup>[4]</sup></a>—and when I say bodhisattva, I'm talking about the ones who've set their hearts on the highest freedom, not just for themselves but for everybody. They weren't gonna turn back, no matter what. They'd gotten hold of something called dhāraṇī<a class="noteref" id="ch1note5ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note5"><sup>[5]</sup></a>—that's like a power to hold onto the truth no matter how hard the wind blows. They could speak smooth and clear about the deepest things, and they kept the wheel of teaching rolling forward, never backing up.</p>

    <p>They'd served countless Buddhas—I'm talking about hundreds, thousands, millions of enlightened teachers. They'd planted good seeds in all those Buddha-fields, and every Buddha they ever met spoke their names with respect. They'd trained their hearts in loving-kindness until kindness was just who they were. They'd gotten inside the Buddha's wisdom like you get inside your own house. They'd crossed over to the far shore of understanding, and their names rang out through countless worlds. They could guide countless beings through the darkness.</p>

    <p>Let me tell you some of their names:</p>

    <p>There was Mañjuśrī<a class="noteref" id="ch1note6ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note6"><sup>[6]</sup></a>, who carries the sword of wisdom. There was Avalokiteśvara<a class="noteref" id="ch1note7ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note7"><sup>[7]</sup></a>, who hears every cry of suffering in this world. There was Mahāsthāmaprāpta, the one with great power. There was Always Striving, who never lets up. There was Never Resting, who don't know how to quit. There was Jewel Palm and Medicine King and Brave Giving and Jewel Moon and Moon Light and Full Moon. There was Great Strength and Limitless Strength and Beyond the Triple World. There was Bhadrapāla and Maitreya<a class="noteref" id="ch1note8ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note8"><sup>[8]</sup></a>—that's the one who's gonna be the next Buddha when this age runs out. There was Jewel Accumulation and Guide—eighty thousand of these great-hearted teachers, all gathered there.</p>

    <p>And the heavenly beings showed up too, you better believe it.</p>

    <p>Śakra<a class="noteref" id="ch1note9ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note9"><sup>[9]</sup></a>, the king of the thirty-three heavens, he came down with twenty thousand divine children. And there was Moon Prince and Universal Fragrance and Jewel Light and the Four Great Kings, each one bringing ten thousand children of heaven. And Freedom King and Great Freedom King, they brought thirty thousand. And Brahmā Sahāmpati, the lord of this whole world-system, and Śikhin Brahma and Bright Brahma, they came with twelve thousand divine children.</p>

    <p>And eight dragon kings came swimming up from the deep waters: Nanda and Upananda and Sāgara and Vāsukin and Takṣaka and Anavatapta and Manasvin and Utpalaka—each one with hundreds of thousands following behind.</p>

    <p>And four kings of the kinnaras came—those are the singers, the ones who make music for the gods<a class="noteref" id="ch1note10ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note10"><sup>[10]</sup></a>. There was Dharma Kinnara King and Wonderful Dharma Kinnara King and Great Dharma Kinnara King and Dharma-Holding Kinnara King, all with their companies.</p>

    <p>And four kings of the gandharvas came—those are the heavenly musicians<a class="noteref" id="ch1note11ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note11"><sup>[11]</sup></a>. There was Joy and Joyful Sound and Beautiful and Beautiful Sound, all with their followers.</p>

    <p>And four kings of the asuras came too—those are the jealous spirits, always fighting with the gods<a class="noteref" id="ch1note12ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note12"><sup>[12]</sup></a>: Bālin and Kharaskandha and Vemacitrin and Rāhu, each one leading hundreds of thousands.</p>

    <p>And four kings of the garuḍas came flying down—those giant birds<a class="noteref" id="ch1note13ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note13"><sup>[13]</sup></a>: Great Virtue and Great Body and Great Fullness and As-You-Wish, each one with their flocks.</p>

    <p>And King Ajātaśatru, son of Queen Vaidehi, he came with hundreds of thousands of people from the city.</p>

    <p>Every single one of them bowed down at the Buddha's feet—and when I say feet, I mean they got low, they showed respect—and then they sat down off to the side.</p>

    <h2>THE TEACHING BEFORE THE SILENCE</h2>

    <p>Right then, the Buddha was surrounded on all four sides—monks, nuns, laymen, laywomen—all of them offering him respect, honoring him, praising him. And he started teaching them a scripture of the Great Vehicle, a text called "The Sutra of Immeasurable Meanings"<a class="noteref" id="ch1note14ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note14"><sup>[14]</sup></a>—a teaching for those bodhisattvas, a teaching that the Buddha himself protects and keeps in mind.</p>

    <p>When he finished teaching that sutra, he crossed his legs up under him—you know that sitting position, like a locked-up lotus—and he entered into a deep, deep meditation<a class="noteref" id="ch1note15ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note15"><sup>[15]</sup></a> on infinite meanings. His body went still. His mind went still. He wasn't moving at all.</p>

    <p>And right then, heaven started raining flowers—mandarava flowers<a class="noteref" id="ch1note16ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note16"><sup>[16]</sup></a> and great mandarava flowers, manjusaka flowers and great manjusaka flowers—pouring down on the Buddha and all that great assembly. And the whole Buddha-world shook six different ways<a class="noteref" id="ch1note17ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note17"><sup>[17]</sup></a>—you know that shaking when the earth can't hold still 'cause something holy is happening.</p>

    <p>And everybody in that gathering—the monks and nuns, the laymen and laywomen, the dragons and the night-wandering spirits, the gandharvas and asuras and garudas and kinnaras and mahoragas, the humans and non-humans, all the little kings and the wheel-turning holy kings—every last one of them got something they never had before. Joy rose up in them. They put their palms together and they looked at the Buddha with one mind, all together, not turning away.</p>

    <h2>THE LIGHT FROM BETWEEN THE EYEBROWS</h2>

    <p>And then the Buddha sent out a beam of light from between his eyebrows—right from that white hair-mark there—and it lit up eighteen thousand worlds to the east, every last corner of them, down to the deepest hell called Avīci<a class="noteref" id="ch1note18ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note18"><sup>[18]</sup></a> where suffering don't quit, all the way up to Akaniṣṭha Heaven<a class="noteref" id="ch1note19ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note19"><sup>[19]</sup></a> where the highest gods dwell.</p>

    <p>And from this world here, you could see into all those other lands. You could see beings in all six paths of existence<a class="noteref" id="ch1note20ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note20"><sup>[20]</sup></a>—beings in hell, hungry ghosts, animals, humans, jealous spirits, gods—you could see them all. And you could see the Buddhas in those worlds, teaching right now, hear the words they were saying. And you could see monks and nuns and laymen and laywomen, people walking the path and getting somewhere. You could see bodhisattvas with all kinds of causes and conditions, all kinds of faith and understanding, all kinds of appearances, walking the bodhisattva road. You could see Buddhas entering that final peace beyond peace, that nirvāṇa<a class="noteref" id="ch1note21ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note21"><sup>[21]</sup></a>. And you could see, after those Buddhas passed on, stupas<a class="noteref" id="ch1note22ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note22"><sup>[22]</sup></a> made of seven kinds of jewels, rising up to hold their relics.</p>

    <h2>MAITREYA ASKS, MAÑJUŚRĪ REMEMBERS</h2>

    <p>Right then, Maitreya Bodhisattva—the one who's coming next—he thought to himself: "Now what's going on here? The World-Honored One is showing us signs and wonders. What's the cause of all this? The Buddha's gone into a meditation so deep you can't think your way into it, and he's showing us things we never seen before. Who should I ask about this? Who could answer?"</p>

    <p>And then he thought: "This Mañjuśrī, he's the Dharma-prince, the king's son. He's served countless Buddhas in the past, no telling how many. He must've seen signs like this before. I'm gonna ask him."</p>

    <p>And right then all the monks and nuns and layfolk and all the gods and dragons and spirits, they all thought the same thing: "This light the Buddha's shining, this supernatural sign—who can we ask about it?"</p>

    <p>So Maitreya Bodhisattva, wanting to clear up his own doubt and seeing what everybody else was wondering, he turned to Mañjuśrī and said: "What's the cause and condition for all this? Why's he sending out this great light, lighting up eighteen thousand lands to the east, showing us all those Buddha-lands decorated so fine?"</p>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>Mañjuśrī, tell me why—<br/>
Why the Teacher's shining bright<br/>
From that white hair between his eyes,<br/>
Pouring out that great big light?<br/>
<br/>
Mandarava flowers raining down,<br/>
Manjusaka falling all around,<br/>
Sandalwood wind blowing sweet,<br/>
Making everybody's heart feel sound.<br/>
<br/>
That's why the ground's all pure and clean,<br/>
This whole world shaking six ways round,<br/>
The four assemblies filled with joy,<br/>
Body and mind feeling glory-bound.<br/>
<br/>
Light from between his eyebrows bright,<br/>
Shining east across the land,<br/>
Eighteen thousand worlds lit up,<br/>
Every one of them turning gold like sand.<br/>
<br/>
From Avīci Hell below<br/>
All the way to highest height,<br/>
In all those worlds we're seeing now<br/>
Beings walking in six paths of life.<br/>
<br/>
We see where birth and death will lead them,<br/>
See the good and bad they've sown,<br/>
See the pretty and the ugly fruit they're getting—<br/>
Everything's being shown.<br/>
<br/>
And we see the Buddhas too,<br/>
Those holy lion-teachers standing tall,<br/>
Teaching scriptures wonderful and subtle—<br/>
The finest teachings of them all.<br/>
<br/>
Their voices pure and clear,<br/>
Speaking soft words, smooth and true,<br/>
Teaching countless bodhisattvas—<br/>
Millions, billions, more than you can count, it's true.<br/>
<br/>
That Brahma-voice so deep and wonderful,<br/>
Making people want to hear,<br/>
Each one in their own world<br/>
Teaching Dharma true and clear.<br/>
<br/>
Using all kinds of causes and conditions,<br/>
Countless metaphors and signs,<br/>
Lighting up the Buddha-Dharma,<br/>
Opening up people's minds.<br/>
<br/>
If someone's suffering hard,<br/>
Sick and tired of getting old and dying sick,<br/>
They'll teach nirvāṇa to them—<br/>
That'll end suffering quick.<br/>
<br/>
If someone's got good fortune,<br/>
Served Buddhas way back when,<br/>
Looking for the highest teaching,<br/>
They'll teach the solitary path to them.<br/>
<br/>
If there's Buddha's children there<br/>
Walking many different roads,<br/>
Seeking wisdom highest of all,<br/>
They'll teach the pure path to unfold.<br/>
<br/>
Mañjuśrī, sitting here,<br/>
I'm seeing and I'm hearing all of this,<br/>
A thousand billion different things—<br/>
More than I can tell you, more than I can list.<br/>
<br/>
I'm seeing countless bodhisattvas,<br/>
Sands-of-the-Ganges many, seeking Buddha's way,<br/>
Some of them practicing giving—<br/>
Gold and silver, coral fine,<br/>
Pearls and magic jewels,<br/>
Conch shells, agate, diamonds that shine,<br/>
Servants, carriages, everything they own,<br/>
Precious decorated sedan chairs—<br/>
Giving it all with happy hearts,<br/>
Dedicating it to Buddha's care,<br/>
Hoping for that supreme vehicle,<br/>
The one all Buddhas praise everywhere.<br/>
<br/>
Some bodhisattvas giving four-horse jeweled carts,<br/>
Railings and flower canopies decorated so nice.<br/>
And I see bodhisattvas giving their own flesh and limbs,<br/>
Even wives and children—that's the ultimate sacrifice,<br/>
Seeking that road to wisdom supreme.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas giving heads and eyes and bodies,<br/>
Happy to offer them all up,<br/>
Seeking Buddha-wisdom—<br/>
Filling that wisdom-cup.<br/>
<br/>
Mañjuśrī, I see kings<br/>
Going to where Buddha stays,<br/>
Asking about the highest path,<br/>
Then giving up their pleasant kingdoms, palaces and all,<br/>
Shaving off their hair,<br/>
Putting on the Dharma robes—<br/>
Answering that highest call.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas becoming monks,<br/>
Living alone in quiet places,<br/>
Happy to chant the scriptures day and night,<br/>
Peace all over their faces.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas brave and vigorous,<br/>
Going into deep mountains where the world can't follow,<br/>
Thinking about the Buddha's path,<br/>
Where the truth ain't hollow.<br/>
<br/>
I see ones who've left desire behind,<br/>
Always staying in empty space,<br/>
Going deep into meditation,<br/>
Getting five spiritual powers by grace.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas sitting quiet in meditation, palms together,<br/>
Praising the Dharma-kings<br/>
With thousands and millions of verses—<br/>
Singing those wisdom-things.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas with wisdom deep and will firm,<br/>
Able to question all the Buddhas,<br/>
Hearing everything and holding onto it—<br/>
Not letting go of nothing, never.<br/>
<br/>
I see Buddha-children<br/>
With meditation and wisdom both complete,<br/>
Using countless metaphors<br/>
To teach the assembly, making wisdom sweet,<br/>
Happy to be teaching Dharma,<br/>
Transforming bodhisattvas all around,<br/>
Breaking the demon armies,<br/>
Beating that Dharma drum sound!<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas silent and peaceful,<br/>
Gods and dragons respecting them all the way—<br/>
But they don't get happy about it,<br/>
Don't let it make their day.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas in forests sending out light,<br/>
Relieving the suffering of hell,<br/>
Causing beings to enter Buddha's path—<br/>
Doing it well.<br/>
<br/>
I see Buddha-children who never sleep,<br/>
Walking meditation through the forest night and day,<br/>
Seeking Buddha's path with all they got—<br/>
Working hard that way.<br/>
<br/>
I see ones holding precepts perfect,<br/>
Dignity and deportment without a single crack,<br/>
Pure as a jewel,<br/>
Nothing that they lack,<br/>
Seeking Buddha's path like that.<br/>
<br/>
I see Buddha-children living in the power of patience,<br/>
When arrogant people curse and beat them down,<br/>
They able to endure it all,<br/>
Don't let it turn them around—<br/>
Seeking Buddha's path without a frown.<br/>
<br/>
I see bodhisattvas leaving behind jokes and foolishness,<br/>
Leaving behind ignorant companions too,<br/>
Getting close to wise people instead,<br/>
Single-mindedly removing confusion—that's what they do.<br/>
Collecting their thoughts in mountain forests,<br/>
For billions and millions of years, it's true,<br/>
Seeking Buddha's path all the way through.<br/>
<br/>
Some bodhisattvas I see<br/>
Offering fine food and drink,<br/>
Hundred kinds of medicinal soups,<br/>
To Buddha and the sangha—don't even blink.<br/>
Fine clothes worth millions,<br/>
Or priceless robes beyond counting,<br/>
Offering to Buddha and sangha—<br/>
Benefits mounting.<br/>
<br/>
Thousands of millions of kinds<br/>
Of sandalwood treasure halls,<br/>
Wonderful beds and bedding,<br/>
Offering to Buddha and sangha—<br/>
Answering that call.<br/>
<br/>
Pure gardens and forests,<br/>
Flowers and fruit growing thick,<br/>
Flowing springs and bathing pools,<br/>
Offering to Buddha and sangha—<br/>
That's the trick.<br/>
<br/>
All these different kinds of giving,<br/>
Offerings wonderful and profound,<br/>
Doing it with joy and no weariness,<br/>
Seeking that highest path around.<br/>
<br/>
Some bodhisattvas teaching the Dharma of peace and stillness,<br/>
Using all kinds of instructions to guide,<br/>
Teaching countless living beings—<br/>
Walking by their side.<br/>
<br/>
Some bodhisattvas contemplating the nature of all things,<br/>
Seeing there ain't no duality there,<br/>
Like empty space—<br/>
Nothing to compare.<br/>
<br/>
And I see Buddha-children<br/>
With minds that don't cling to nothing at all,<br/>
Using this wonderful wisdom<br/>
To seek the highest path—standing tall.<br/>
<br/>
Mañjuśrī, I see more bodhisattvas<br/>
After Buddha's gone into extinction,<br/>
Making offerings to relics—<br/>
That's their mission.<br/>
<br/>
I see Buddha-children<br/>
Building stupas and shrines,<br/>
Countless as Ganges sands,<br/>
Decorating all the lands with designs.<br/>
<br/>
Jeweled stupas tall and wonderful—<br/>
Five thousand yojanas high,<br/>
Two thousand yojanas wide and deep—<br/>
Reaching toward the sky.<br/>
<br/>
Every single stupa there<br/>
With a thousand banners and flags,<br/>
Jeweled bells ringing in harmony,<br/>
Pearl netting hanging from the crags.<br/>
<br/>
Gods and dragons and spirits,<br/>
Humans and non-humans all around,<br/>
Always making offerings there<br/>
With incense, flowers, and music-sound.<br/>
<br/>
Mañjuśrī, these Buddha-children,<br/>
Making offerings to relics this way,<br/>
Their countries naturally become<br/>
Specially wonderful and beautiful—you could say<br/>
Like the king of heavenly trees<br/>
When its flowers open up and bloom.<br/>
<br/>
The Buddha let out just one light—<br/>
One light clearing all the gloom—<br/>
And me and this whole assembly<br/>
Seeing all those lands so fine,<br/>
All those Buddha-powers<br/>
And wisdom-signs.<br/>
<br/>
One pure light<br/>
Lighting up countless lands—<br/>
We seeing all this,<br/>
Never seen nothing like it—understand?<br/>
<br/>
Buddha-son Mañjuśrī,<br/>
Please decide everybody's doubt,<br/>
The four assemblies looking up hopeful<br/>
At you and me—what's this all about?<br/>
Why's the World-Honored One<br/>
Letting this light shine out?<br/>
<br/>
Buddha-son, answer now,<br/>
Decide this doubt and make us glad.<br/>
What benefit's coming<br/>
From this light—this holy light we've had?<br/>
<br/>
Is Buddha sitting in the place of enlightenment<br/>
About to teach that wonderful Dharma he's got?<br/>
Or is he about to give predictions of awakening?<br/>
Is that what this means or not?<br/>
<br/>
He's showing us Buddha-lands<br/>
Decorated with countless jewels so clean,<br/>
And we seeing all these Buddhas—<br/>
This ain't no small scene.<br/>
<br/>
Mañjuśrī, you know—<br/>
Four assemblies, dragons, gods—<br/>
They all looking at you, waiting to hear:<br/>
What are you gonna say about these signs we see here?
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>MAÑJUŚRĪ REMEMBERS THE ANCIENT PATTERN</h2>

    <p>Right then, Mañjuśrī spoke to Maitreya Bodhisattva and all those great beings and good men, saying:</p>

    <p>"The way I figure it, the World-Honored One right now is about to teach a great Dharma, about to rain down a great Dharma-rain, about to blow the great Dharma-conch, about to beat the great Dharma-drum, about to explain the great Dharma-meaning.</p>

    <p>"Good men, in the past, with other Buddhas, I've seen signs like this. After they let out this kind of light, they taught the great Dharma. So you should know: the Buddha's showing this light now for the same reason. He wants to help all living beings hear and know this Dharma that's hard for the whole world to believe. That's why he's showing these signs."</p>

    <p>And Mañjuśrī started telling a story—a story from so long ago you can't count the years of how Buddha <span class="sanskrit">Moon-Sun-Lamp</span><a class="noteref" id="ch1note23ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note23"><sup>[23]</sup></a> appeared countless eons ago and taught the Lotus Sutra to his assembly. When that Buddha sent out a similar light and sat in meditation, <span class="sanskrit">Wonderful Light Bodhisattva</span><a class="noteref" id="ch1note24ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch1note24"><sup>[24]</sup></a> asked about the signs. Then the Buddha taught the Lotus Sutra for sixty short eons without rising from his seat.</p>

    <p>And Mañjuśrī revealed the heart of his memory: "Maitreya, you should know: that <span class="sanskrit">Wonderful Light Bodhisattva</span> back then—you think he was somebody else? He was me. I'm that person. And that <span class="sanskrit">Seeker of Fame Bodhisattva</span>? That was you. You're that person. Now I'm seeing these signs, and they're no different from what I saw before. That's why I figure: today the Thus Come One is about to teach the Lotus Sutra."</p>

    <h2>MAÑJUŚRĪ SPEAKS IN VERSE</h2>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>I'm remembering the past—<br/>
Countless, numberless eons back—<br/>
There was a Buddha, honored among humans,<br/>
Named Moon-Sun-Lamp, that's a fact.<br/>
<br/>
The World-Honored One taught Dharma,<br/>
Saved countless living beings,<br/>
Numberless billions of bodhisattvas,<br/>
Brought them into Buddha-wisdom's meanings.<br/>
<br/>
Before Buddha left home,<br/>
He had eight royal sons.<br/>
When they saw the great holy one leave home,<br/>
They followed him—every single one.<br/>
<br/>
Then Buddha taught the Great Vehicle,<br/>
A scripture called Infinite Meanings,<br/>
Among that great assembly there,<br/>
He explained its teachings with all their leanings.<br/>
<br/>
After Buddha finished teaching that sutra,<br/>
Right there on his Dharma-seat,<br/>
He sat cross-legged in concentration—<br/>
Infinite Meanings made complete.<br/>
<br/>
Heaven rained mandarava flowers,<br/>
Heavenly drums sounded on their own,<br/>
Gods and dragons and spirits and all<br/>
Offered to the human-honored one.<br/>
<br/>
All the Buddha-lands right then<br/>
Shook powerfully and strong.<br/>
Buddha let light out from between his eyebrows—<br/>
Rare signs coming along.<br/>
<br/>
That light shone east<br/>
Over eighteen thousand Buddha-lands,<br/>
Showing all living beings<br/>
The places where birth-death and karma stands.<br/>
<br/>
Some saw Buddha-lands<br/>
Decorated with countless jewels,<br/>
Lapis and crystal colors—<br/>
Lit by Buddha-light like swimming pools.<br/>
<br/>
And saw gods and humans,<br/>
Dragons, spirits, night-walking crowds,<br/>
Gandharvas and kinnaras—<br/>
Each one making offerings, humble and proud.<br/>
<br/>
And saw the Thus Come Ones<br/>
Naturally attaining Buddha's way,<br/>
Bodies colored like golden mountains,<br/>
Dignified and subtle in every way.<br/>
<br/>
Like in pure lapis lazuli<br/>
A true golden image shines inside—<br/>
World-Honored Ones among great assemblies,<br/>
Explaining deep Dharma far and wide.<br/>
<br/>
In every single Buddha-land,<br/>
Countless hearer-disciples there,<br/>
Because of Buddha's light shining,<br/>
We could see those great assemblies everywhere.<br/>
<br/>
Some monks were there<br/>
In mountain forests dwelling,<br/>
Vigorously holding pure precepts<br/>
Like they were guarding a jewel—protecting, not selling.<br/>
<br/>
And saw countless bodhisattvas<br/>
Practicing giving and patience and more,<br/>
Numerous as Ganges sands—<br/>
All lit by Buddha-light at the door.<br/>
<br/>
And saw bodhisattvas<br/>
Deep in various meditations,<br/>
Bodies and minds silent and unmoving,<br/>
Seeking the highest way—their destination.<br/>
<br/>
And saw bodhisattvas<br/>
Knowing the still and quiet character of Dharma,<br/>
Each one in their own land<br/>
Teaching Dharma, seeking Buddha—no drama.<br/>
<br/>
Right then the four assemblies<br/>
Saw Moon-Sun-Lamp Buddha's great spiritual powers,<br/>
Their hearts all filled with joy—<br/>
That was their finest hour.<br/>
<br/>
Each one asking each other:<br/>
"What's the cause of all this we're seeing?"<br/>
The one honored by gods and humans<br/>
Just came out of meditation—freed and freeing.<br/>
<br/>
He praised Wonderful Light Bodhisattva:<br/>
"You are the world's eye,<br/>
The one everyone trusts and believes in,<br/>
Able to hold the Dharma-treasury high.<br/>
<br/>
The Dharma I have taught—<br/>
Only you can truly know it."<br/>
The World-Honored One, after praising him that way,<br/>
Made Wonderful Light rejoice and glow with it.<br/>
<br/>
Then he taught this Lotus Sutra of the Dharma,<br/>
For sixty short eons sitting there,<br/>
Not getting up from that seat once—<br/>
Staying in one place with care.<br/>
<br/>
The wonderful supreme Dharma he spoke—<br/>
Wonderful Light Dharma-teacher held it all,<br/>
Every bit of it, didn't lose a word—<br/>
Didn't let one syllable fall.<br/>
<br/>
After Buddha finished teaching that Lotus Sutra of the Dharma,<br/>
Making everyone joyful and glad,<br/>
Right that very day<br/>
He told the gods and humans—every man and lad:<br/>
<br/>
"The meaning of the reality of all things—<br/>
I've already explained it to you straight.<br/>
Now tonight at midnight<br/>
I'm entering nirvāṇa—that's my fate.<br/>
<br/>
You all better focus your minds,<br/>
Stay away from being slack,<br/>
Buddhas are extremely hard to meet—<br/>
Once in billions of eons they come back."<br/>
<br/>
The World-Honored One's children—<br/>
When they heard Buddha entering nirvāṇa's door,<br/>
Each one of them filled with sorrow:<br/>
"How come Buddha's leaving so fast? No more?"<br/>
<br/>
The holy lord, the king of Dharma,<br/>
Comforted countless people in that crowd:<br/>
"When I enter extinction,<br/>
Y'all shouldn't worry or grieve so loud.<br/>
<br/>
This Virtue Storehouse Bodhisattva—<br/>
About reality without defilement he's gotten clear.<br/>
Next he'll become Buddha,<br/>
Named Pure Body—have no fear.<br/>
He'll save countless beings too—<br/>
Keep them dear."<br/>
<br/>
That very night Buddha entered extinction,<br/>
Like firewood burning up, the fire goes out,<br/>
They divided up the relics,<br/>
Built countless stupas all about.<br/>
<br/>
Monks and nuns—<br/>
Their number like Ganges sands—<br/>
They doubled their vigorous effort,<br/>
Seeking the highest path with working hands.<br/>
<br/>
Wonderful Light Dharma-teacher,<br/>
He held onto Buddha's Dharma-treasury with care,<br/>
For eighty short eons<br/>
He widely taught the Lotus Sutra everywhere.<br/>
<br/>
Those eight princes—<br/>
Wonderful Light opened them up and taught them right,<br/>
Made them firm in the highest path,<br/>
They were gonna see countless Buddhas' light.<br/>
<br/>
After making offerings to those Buddhas,<br/>
Following and walking the great path's track,<br/>
One after another they attained Buddhahood,<br/>
Each one predicting the next one's coming back.<br/>
<br/>
The last one, the heaven among heavens,<br/>
Was named Burning Lamp Buddha in the end,<br/>
The guide for all the sages,<br/>
Saving countless beings—everybody's friend.<br/>
<br/>
That Wonderful Light Dharma-teacher—<br/>
He had one disciple back then,<br/>
Whose mind was always lazy,<br/>
Greedy for fame and gain.<br/>
<br/>
Seeking fame and gain without satisfaction,<br/>
Visiting wealthy families all the time,<br/>
Abandoning what he'd memorized and studied,<br/>
Forgetting it all—couldn't remember one line.<br/>
<br/>
Because of that cause and condition,<br/>
They named him Seeker of Fame.<br/>
But he also practiced many good deeds,<br/>
Got to see countless Buddhas just the same.<br/>
<br/>
Made offerings to all those Buddhas,<br/>
Followed and walked the great path's way,<br/>
Perfected the Six Perfections,<br/>
Now he's seeing Śākya Lion today.<br/>
<br/>
Later on he'll become Buddha,<br/>
Named Maitreya, that's gonna be his call,<br/>
Widely saving living beings—<br/>
Countless beings, one and all.<br/>
<br/>
After that Buddha passed into extinction,<br/>
That lazy one—that's you, Maitreya, don't you see?<br/>
And that Wonderful Light Dharma-teacher?<br/>
That was me—that person was me.<br/>
<br/>
I saw Burning Lamp Buddha<br/>
With original light-signs just like this we see,<br/>
That's how I know today's Buddha<br/>
Is about to teach the Lotus Sutra—certainly.<br/>
<br/>
Today's signs are like the original signs—<br/>
This is all the Buddhas' skillful means.<br/>
Now Buddha's letting out this light<br/>
To help reveal reality's deepest scenes.<br/>
<br/>
All you people better know:<br/>
Put your palms together, wait with single mind,<br/>
Buddha's about to rain the Dharma-rain,<br/>
Filling up all those seeking the path—you'll find.<br/>
<br/>
All you people seeking the three vehicles,<br/>
If you got doubts or regrets inside your chest,<br/>
Buddha's gonna remove them and cut them off—<br/>
Won't leave a single one—he'll handle the rest.
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>PHILOSOPHICAL IMPLICATIONS</h2>

    <p>Chapter 1's narrative of cosmic assembly, supernatural manifestation, and transmission across inconceivable time constitutes far more than mere literary prologue. This opening establishes the ontological and epistemological framework upon which the entire sutra depends—a framework that challenges conventional Buddhist categories while simultaneously grounding the Lotus Sutra's radical teachings in primordial precedent. The philosophical dimensions opened here reverberate through Buddhist thought with implications that extend to cosmology, phenomenology of consciousness, and the very nature of religious transmission.</p>

    <p><strong>The Cosmology of Inexhaustibility</strong>: The Buddha's light illuminating eighteen thousand worlds in each of the ten directions—a total of 180,000 Buddha-lands visible simultaneously—establishes a cosmological principle fundamentally distinct from hierarchical spatial ordering. This is not mere quantitative vastness but qualitative infinitude: each world-system contains its own Buddhas teaching, its own assemblies listening, its own beings traversing the six paths of existence. The vision penetrates vertically from Avīci Hell (無間地獄 / the hell of uninterrupted suffering) to Akaniṣṭha Heaven (阿迦膩吒天 / the highest realm of form), and horizontally across innumerable realms. This cosmological structure parallels the Huayan school's concept of <em>shishi wuai</em> (事事無礙 / mutual non-obstruction of all phenomena), where each particular phenomenon contains and reflects the totality. The philosophical implication: ultimate reality is not a singular location to be reached but an omnipresent condition to be recognized. The Buddha's wisdom does not transcend the world but pervades it entirely—there is no place where Buddha-nature does not abide.</p>

    <p><strong>The Assembly as Universal Sangha</strong>: The gathering on Vulture Peak represents more than historical congregation—it constitutes a symbolic enactment of universal community transcending conventional categories. Humans and non-humans, ordained monastics and lay practitioners, celestial beings and terrestrial creatures, those who have attained liberation and those still bound by afflictions—all assemble without hierarchy of access to the teaching. The eight classes of supernatural beings (天龍八部 / <em>devas</em>, <em>nāgas</em>, <em>yakṣas</em>, <em>gandharvas</em>, <em>asuras</em>, <em>garuḍas</em>, <em>kinnaras</em>, <em>mahoragas</em>) represent the totality of sentient existence, suggesting that Buddha-dharma addresses not merely human salvation but the liberation of all conscious beings throughout the cosmos. This anticipates Emmanuel Levinas's ethics of radical hospitality—the Other is not excluded but constitutive of genuine community. Moreover, the presence of both arhats who have completed the path and bodhisattvas still walking it demonstrates that spiritual community encompasses both those who have arrived and those still journeying. The assembly itself becomes a mandala—a sacred configuration representing the complete structure of enlightened reality.</p>

    <p><strong>Past and Future as Cyclical Revelation</strong>: Mañjuśrī's recollection of Moon-Sun-Lamp Buddha (日月燈明佛) teaching the Lotus Sutra in the incomprehensibly distant past—and his identification of his former self as Wonderful Light Bodhisattva and Maitreya's former self as Seeker of Fame—establishes a profound philosophical principle: the present moment is simultaneously unprecedented and eternal recurrence. This is not simple linear causality but cyclical-spiral temporality where the "same" teaching reappears across countless cosmic epochs, each instance both identical in essence and unique in historical manifestation. Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of eternal return illuminates this structure, but with crucial differences—Buddhist cyclical time is not blind repetition but progressive revelation, each iteration deepening rather than merely repeating. The Lotus Sutra is not taught for the first time; it represents timeless dharma manifesting within time. This resolves the tension between historical contingency and eternal truth: authentic teaching must arise both from timeless reality and within specific historical conditions to address particular beings' capacities.</p>

    <p><strong>The Incomprehensibility of Buddha-Wisdom</strong>: The Buddha's profound meditation (<em>samādhi</em> on Infinite Meanings) and the light emission from his <em>ūrṇā</em> (白毫相 / the white hair-tuft between the eyebrows, one of the thirty-two marks of a great being) signal that what follows exceeds ordinary conceptual comprehension. The assembly's collective bewilderment—even advanced arhats and bodhisattvas cannot fathom the meaning of these auspicious signs—establishes a crucial epistemological point: Buddha-wisdom is not merely greater in degree than conventional knowledge but different in kind. This resonates with Rudolf Otto's concept of the <em>mysterium tremendum</em>—the holy as that which exceeds all categories of ordinary experience, inspiring both fascination and existential awe. Yet the Lotus Sutra does not leave practitioners in mute incomprehension; it employs skillful means precisely to render the inconceivable accessible. The light serves as what Heidegger calls <em>aletheia</em> (ἀλήθεια / unconcealment)—truth not as correspondence but as revelation, disclosing what was always present yet obscured. The Buddha's silence before speaking paradoxically communicates more than words could—it creates the existential space within which radical teaching can be received.</p>

    <p><strong>Historical Contingency and Eternal Teaching</strong>: The chapter navigates the tension between the Buddha's historical appearance at a specific time and place (Vulture Peak, circa 5th century BCE) and the timeless nature of the dharma he teaches. Śākyamuni Buddha is simultaneously a particular individual born into the Śākya clan and the manifestation of primordial Buddha-nature that has been teaching across countless cosmic ages. This parallels the Christian theological problem of the historical Jesus and the cosmic Christ, but Buddhist philosophy resolves it through the doctrine of the Tathāgata's multiple bodies (<em>trikāya</em>): the <em>nirmāṇakāya</em> (應身 / transformation body appearing in history), the <em>sambhogakāya</em> (報身 / reward body dwelling in pure lands), and the <em>dharmakāya</em> (法身 / dharma body identical with ultimate reality itself). Chapter 1 subtly introduces this framework—the assembly witnesses the historical Buddha Śākyamuni, yet the supernatural phenomena (light, earthquake, flower-rain) indicate they are in the presence of something that transcends mere historical personhood. The teaching that will follow is not Śākyamuni's personal innovation but the eternal dharma flowing through his enlightened expression.</p>

    <p><strong>Memory and Prophecy in Spiritual Transmission</strong>: Mañjuśrī's recollection serves crucial philosophical functions beyond mere narrative device. First, it establishes precedent—the Lotus Sutra's radical claims are not unprecedented but represent the recovery of primordial teaching that has been transmitted across cosmic ages. Second, it demonstrates that enlightened consciousness transcends temporal limitation—Mañjuśrī remembers not through linear historical records but through direct gnosis that penetrates temporal veils. Third, the pairing of memory (Mañjuśrī recalling Wonderful Light) and prophecy (Maitreya destined for future Buddhahood) establishes dharma-transmission as simultaneously retrospective and prospective—authentic teaching honors the past while projecting toward future fulfillment. This mirrors Walter Benjamin's concept of <em>Jetztzeit</em> (now-time), where the present moment constellates both past and future in revolutionary synthesis. The laziness of Seeker of Fame (Maitreya's past incarnation) and his eventual redemption demonstrates that even those who fail initially may ultimately succeed—spiritual failure is not final, and the path accommodates human weakness. This offers profound hope: present inadequacy does not preclude future enlightenment; the very trajectory from laziness to Buddhahood validates the possibility of universal liberation.</p>

    <h2>APPARATUS SUMMARY</h2>

    <p><strong>Chapter 1: "The Opening" (序品第一 / <em>Nidāna-parivarta</em>)</strong> functions as the narrative and cosmological foundation for the entire Lotus Sutra, establishing the vast assembly, supernatural context, and primordial precedent necessary for the radical teachings that follow. Unlike typical sutra introductions that merely set scene and audience, Chapter 1 performs essential philosophical work—demonstrating that what follows is simultaneously unprecedented and eternally recurrent, historically contingent and cosmically universal.</p>

    <p><strong>Key Buddhist Concepts Introduced</strong>:</p>

    <p><em>Tathāgata</em> (如來 / Thus-Come-One): One of the Buddha's ten epithets, indicating one who has "thus come" from suchness (<em>tathatā</em>) itself—the undifferentiated ground of reality. This term emphasizes the Buddha not as individual personality but as the embodiment of ultimate truth manifesting within conventional reality.</p>

    <p><em>Bhagavān</em> (世尊 / World-Honored One): The Buddha as supreme teacher honored by all beings throughout the cosmos—gods, humans, and supernatural creatures alike. This epithet establishes the Buddha's universal authority transcending sectarian or regional limitations.</p>

    <p><em>Dharma-paryāya</em> (法會 / Dharma-Assembly): Not merely a gathering but a sacred configuration where dharma is transmitted—a soteriological event where conventional spatial-temporal limitations are suspended and ultimate reality becomes accessible. The assembly itself is a mandala representing the totality of existence.</p>

    <p><em>Ūrṇā-kośa-prabhā</em> (白毫相光 / Light from the Tuft of White Hair): The luminous emanation from one of the Buddha's thirty-two major marks, serving as supernatural indication that profound teaching will follow. This light functions simultaneously as revelation and concealment—illuminating countless worlds while the teaching's meaning remains initially obscure.</p>

    <p><em>Ṣaḍ-vikāra</em> (六種震動 / Six Kinds of Earthquake): The shaking in six directions (east-west, north-south, up-down) indicating cosmic transformation. Buddhist cosmology holds that when Buddhas are born, attain enlightenment, teach profound dharma, or enter final nirvāṇa, the earth quakes—reality itself responds to the presence of awakening.</p>

    <p><em>Ṣaḍ-gati</em> (六道 / Six Paths of Existence): The realms of rebirth—hells, hungry ghosts, animals, humans, jealous spirits (<em>asuras</em>), and gods (<em>devas</em>)—through which unenlightened beings cycle according to their karma. The light's illumination of all six paths demonstrates that Buddha-dharma addresses the totality of conditioned existence.</p>

    <p><em>Dhāraṇī</em> (陀羅尼 / Retention/Incantation): The spiritual power to retain and hold vast teachings without forgetting, often rendered as mystical formulas or mnemonics. Bodhisattvas who have attained <em>dhāraṇī</em> can remember countless teachings across infinite lifetimes.</p>

    <p><strong>Central Teachings and Their Significance</strong>:</p>

    <p>The Buddha's light revealing eighteen thousand Buddha-lands in each direction establishes the cosmological context for the One Vehicle teaching. This vision demonstrates that innumerable Buddhas throughout infinite worlds all teach the same ultimate dharma, though employing infinite skillful variations. The assembly witnesses Buddhas in other realms teaching the three vehicles (disciple, solitary-realizer, bodhisattva) to beings of different capacities—precisely the pedagogical strategy that Chapter 2 will reveal as provisional. This parallel between what occurs "here" on Vulture Peak and what occurs "there" in countless other Buddha-lands suggests that the teaching about to unfold possesses universal significance.</p>

    <p>Mañjuśrī's recollection of Moon-Sun-Lamp Buddha teaching the Lotus Sutra in the inconceivable past establishes crucial precedent. This is not innovation but restoration—the recovery of primordial teaching that has been transmitted across cosmic epochs. The narrative detail that Moon-Sun-Lamp Buddha taught for sixty <em>kalpas</em> (劫 / cosmic epochs) without rising from his seat demonstrates the teaching's inexhaustibility—it cannot be summarized or abbreviated but requires sustained exposition. Wonderful Light Bodhisattva (Mañjuśrī's former incarnation) who "held the entire Dharma-treasury, not losing a single word" represents the ideal receptor of teaching—one whose retention is complete and whose subsequent transmission is faithful. The contrast with Seeker of Fame (Maitreya's former incarnation), "whose mind was always lazy, greedy for fame and gain," demonstrates that even those who initially fail to practice diligently may eventually attain Buddhahood—the path accommodates human weakness and offers infinite opportunity for redemption.</p>

    <p><strong>Structural Function Within the Lotus Sutra</strong>:</p>

    <p>Chapter 1 operates as overture—introducing themes that subsequent chapters will develop fully. The cosmological vision anticipates Chapters 10-22's revelation of the Buddha's eternal lifespan and omnipresence across infinite worlds. The assembly of humans, gods, and supernatural beings prefigures Chapters 23-28's presentation of bodhisattvas who manifest in countless forms to benefit beings. Mañjuśrī and Maitreya's dialogue establishes the pattern of question-and-response that structures the entire sutra—confusion giving way to revelation through patient exposition.</p>

    <p>Critically, Chapter 1 creates expectation without fulfillment—it displays auspicious signs but withholds their meaning, generating the narrative tension that propels the assembly (and the reader) into Chapter 2's revolutionary teaching. This pedagogical withholding mirrors the Buddha's threefold refusal to teach in Chapter 2—profound dharma cannot be transmitted casually but requires proper preparation of consciousness.</p>

    <p><strong>Cross-References to Related Concepts</strong>:</p>

    <p>The vast assembly motif appears throughout Mahāyāna literature. The <em>Vimalakīrti Nirdeśa Sūtra</em> similarly gathers countless beings in an impossibly small room, demonstrating the interpenetration of dimensions. The <em>Avataṃsaka Sūtra</em> depicts assemblies where bodhisattvas from infinite realms gather to hear Vairocana Buddha teach. The <em>Larger Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra</em> describes Amitābha Buddha's Pure Land assembly. These parallel assemblies suggest a shared Mahāyāna understanding: ultimate teaching requires universal audience—all beings, without exception, are invited to receive the dharma.</p>

    <p>The light emission appears in earlier Buddhist texts as well. In the <em>Abhiniṣkramaṇa Sūtra</em>, the Buddha emits light to search for suitable beings to teach first after his enlightenment. In the <em>Saddharmapuṇḍarīka's</em> own Chapter 1, the light serves diagnostic and revelatory functions—illuminating what exists but was previously invisible. This motif connects to the broader Buddhist metaphor of ignorance as darkness and wisdom as light.</p>

    <p>Mañjuśrī's role as interlocutor and memory-keeper establishes his function throughout the sutra and broader Mahāyāna literature as the bodhisattva of transcendent wisdom (<em>prajñā</em>). In the <em>Vimalakīrti Nirdeśa</em>, Mañjuśrī serves as primary questioner and explicator. In Zen literature, Mañjuśrī represents the wisdom that cuts through delusion—hence his iconographic sword. His pairing with Maitreya (compassion oriented toward future) creates dynamic tension: wisdom regarding the past and compassion projecting toward the future together constitute the complete bodhisattva path.</p>

    <p><strong>Terminology Notes</strong>: The assembly members represent a complete Buddhist cosmology. <em>Bhikṣu</em> (比丘 / monk) and <em>bhikṣuṇī</em> (比丘尼 / nun) designate fully ordained monastics. <em>Upāsaka</em> (優婆塞 / layman) and <em>upāsikā</em> (優婆夷 / laywoman) indicate lay practitioners who have taken refuge and precepts. The eight classes of supernatural beings enumerate non-human realms: <em>deva</em> (天 / gods), <em>nāga</em> (龍 / dragons/serpent-spirits), <em>yakṣa</em> (夜叉 / fierce nature spirits), <em>gandharva</em> (乾闥婆 / celestial musicians), <em>asura</em> (阿修羅 / jealous spirits/titans), <em>garuḍa</em> (迦樓羅 / giant birds), <em>kinnara</em> (緊那羅 / celestial singers), <em>mahoraga</em> (摩睺羅伽 / great serpents). Each category represents different modes of existence within saṃsāra, all capable of receiving dharma-teaching.</p>

  </article>
</body>
</html>
