<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8"/>
  <title>Chapter Three: The Parable</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../CSS/styles.css"/>
</head>
<body class="chapter">
  <article>
    <h1>CHAPTER THREE: THE PARABLE</h1>
    <p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic;">Blues Interpretation from Classical Chinese by Kumārajīva</p>

    <h2>ŚĀRIPUTRA'S JOY</h2>

    <p>Right then, Śāriputra—his heart just leaping up—he stood up, put his palms together, looked straight at the Buddha's face, and said:</p>

    <p>"Lord, today I heard this teaching from you, and my heart's dancing like it ain't never danced before. I got something I never had. You know why? Because all this time I been hearing you teach, seeing you tell these bodhisattvas they gonna be buddhas, giving them their prophecies—and me and mine, we wasn't in on none of that. I felt cut to the heart, like I'd lost out on all that boundless wisdom you got.</p>

    <p>"World-Honored One, I used to go off by myself—mountains, forests, under the trees—sitting or walking, and I'd think about it over and over: 'We all entered into the same dharma-nature, so how come the Buddha's saving us with this small-vehicle teaching?' But that was on me, Lord, not on you. Why? Because if we'd just waited to hear you explain the causes, the way to reach that supreme perfect enlightenment, we would've been saved by the great vehicle. But we didn't understand your skillful means<a class="noteref" id="ch3note1ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note1"><sup>[60]</sup></a>, the way you teach different folks different ways. First time we heard the Dharma, we just grabbed hold, believed it, thought about it, and took it for proof.</p>

    <p>"World-Honored One, all this time—day and night, day and night—I been blaming myself. But now I heard from you what I never heard before, a teaching I never even knew existed, and all my doubts and regrets just fell away. My body and mind feel easy now, like I finally got home safe. Today I know for real—I'm a true child of the Buddha, born from the Buddha's mouth, born from the Dharma's transformation, got my share of the Buddha's teaching."</p>

    <h2>ŚĀRIPUTRA'S VERSES</h2>

    <p>Then Śāriputra, wanting to say it again, spoke in verse:</p>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>I heard this teaching sound,<br/>
got what I never had,<br/>
my heart's filled up with joy,<br/>
the net of doubts all torn away.<br/>
<br/>
From way back I received your teaching,<br/>
didn't lose the great vehicle path.<br/>
Buddha's voice is precious rare,<br/>
can take away all living beings' pain.<br/>
<br/>
I already got my leakages dried up,<br/>
hearing this takes away my worry and grief.<br/>
When I was in the mountain valleys,<br/>
or underneath the forest trees,<br/>
<br/>
Whether sitting down or walking 'round,<br/>
I was always thinking on this thing,<br/>
crying out, blaming my own self:<br/>
"How come I went and fooled myself?"<br/>
<br/>
We're Buddha's children too,<br/>
entered the same no-leak teaching,<br/>
but we can't, in the future time,<br/>
proclaim this unsurpassed Way.<br/>
<br/>
The golden color and thirty-two marks,<br/>
the ten powers and all liberations—<br/>
we're in the same Dharma together,<br/>
but I didn't get none of this.<br/>
<br/>
The eighty kinds of beautiful signs,<br/>
the eighteen things that buddhas alone have—<br/>
all these kind of virtues and powers,<br/>
and I done lost every one.<br/>
<br/>
When I was walking by myself,<br/>
I'd see the Buddha in the great assembly,<br/>
his name filling up all ten directions,<br/>
bringing benefit far and wide to living beings.<br/>
<br/>
I'd think: "I lost this advantage,<br/>
I done deceived my own self."<br/>
Day and night, day and night,<br/>
I kept thinking on this thing,<br/>
<br/>
Wanting to ask the World-Honored One:<br/>
Did I lose out or didn't I?<br/>
I kept seeing the World-Honored One<br/>
praising all them bodhisattvas.<br/>
<br/>
So day and night, day and night,<br/>
I was turning this thing over in my mind.<br/>
Now I heard the Buddha's voice<br/>
teaching according to what folks need,<br/>
<br/>
That no-leak teaching, hard to imagine,<br/>
leading everyone to the place of the Way.<br/>
I used to hold wrong views,<br/>
I was a teacher for them brahmin priests.<br/>
<br/>
World-Honored One knew my heart,<br/>
pulled out the wrong and taught nirvāṇa<a class="noteref" id="ch3note2ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note2"><sup>[61]</sup></a>.<br/>
I swept away all them wrong views,<br/>
bore witness to the empty teaching.<br/>
<br/>
Right then my heart told me<br/>
I'd reached the place of extinction.<br/>
But now I finally see clear—<br/>
that wasn't real extinction at all.<br/>
<br/>
When I get to be a buddha,<br/>
with the thirty-two marks complete,<br/>
heaven-folk and yaksha crowds,<br/>
dragons and spirits showing respect—<br/>
<br/>
That's when you can truly say<br/>
it's permanently done, nothing left over.<br/>
Buddha, in this great assembly,<br/>
said I'm gonna be a buddha.<br/>
<br/>
Hearing this kind of teaching sound,<br/>
all doubts and regrets swept clean.<br/>
First time I heard what the Buddha said,<br/>
my heart was shocked and full of doubt:<br/>
<br/>
"Could this be a demon pretending to be Buddha,<br/>
trying to mess with my mind?"<br/>
But Buddha used all kinds of causes,<br/>
parables and skillful words,<br/>
<br/>
His heart calm as the ocean,<br/>
and when I heard, the net of doubt got cut.<br/>
Buddha told about the past ages,<br/>
countless buddhas gone to extinction,<br/>
<br/>
Dwelling safe in skillful means,<br/>
they all taught this same teaching.<br/>
Present and future buddhas too,<br/>
their number beyond all counting,<br/>
<br/>
They also use skillful means<br/>
to proclaim this very teaching.<br/>
Just like our present World-Honored One—<br/>
from his birth up to leaving home,<br/>
<br/>
Finding the Way and turning the Dharma wheel,<br/>
he also taught by skillful means.<br/>
World-Honored One teaches the real Way—<br/>
the evil one ain't got nothing like this.<br/>
<br/>
So now I know for certain sure,<br/>
this ain't no demon playing buddha.<br/>
I fell into that net of doubt,<br/>
thought it was the devil's doing.<br/>
<br/>
I heard Buddha's gentle voice,<br/>
deep and far and so refined,<br/>
setting forth the pure and clean teaching.<br/>
My heart filled up with joy,<br/>
<br/>
All doubts and regrets gone for good,<br/>
dwelling safe in the real wisdom.<br/>
I'm definitely gonna be a buddha,<br/>
honored by heaven-folk and humans,<br/>
<br/>
Turning the unsurpassed Dharma wheel,<br/>
teaching and transforming bodhisattvas.
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA SPEAKS TO ŚĀRIPUTRA</h2>

    <p>Right then the Buddha told Śāriputra:</p>

    <p>"Now, in front of all these heaven-folk, humans, monks, brahmin priests, and the whole great assembly, I'm telling you—way back, at the place of twenty billion buddhas, for the sake of this unsurpassed Way, I was always teaching you. And you, through the long night, you followed me and learned. I used skillful means to guide you, made you be born into my Dharma.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, back then I taught you to set your will on the buddha-way, but you done forgot all about it now and went around thinking you already reached extinction. Now I want to make you remember again that original vow and the way you walked, so I'm preaching this Mahayana scripture to the voice-hearer disciples. It's called the Lotus of the Wonderful Dharma, teaching for bodhisattvas, cherished and protected by all buddhas.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, in the future age, after you pass through a boundless, limitless, unthinkable number of ages, after you make offerings to thousands and millions and billions of buddhas, after you uphold the true Dharma and complete all the bodhisattva practices—you gonna be a buddha. Your name gonna be Flower Light Tathāgata<a class="noteref" id="ch3note3ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note3"><sup>[62]</sup></a>, Worthy of Offerings, Perfectly Enlightened in Knowledge, Perfect in Knowledge and Conduct, Well-Gone One, Knower of the World, Unsurpassed One, Tamer of Beings, Teacher of Gods and Humans, Buddha, World-Honored One.</p>

    <p>"Your country gonna be called Free from Dirt, and that land gonna be level and straight, pure and beautiful, peaceful and rich and happy, heaven-folk and humans flourishing everywhere. The ground gonna be made of lapis lazuli, with eight roads crossing, gold ropes marking out the sides. Along them roads, seven-jewel trees everywhere, always full of flowers and fruit. That Flower Light Tathāgata gonna teach living beings using the three vehicles<a class="noteref" id="ch3note4ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note4"><sup>[63]</sup></a> too.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, when that buddha appears, even though it won't be an evil age, because of his original vow he gonna teach the three-vehicle Dharma. His age gonna be called Great Jewel Adornment. Why it called Great Jewel Adornment? Because in that country, bodhisattvas are the great jewels. And them bodhisattvas—boundless, limitless, beyond thought, can't be counted by numbers or comparisons. Unless you got buddha-wisdom power, can't nobody know their number.</p>

    <p>"When they want to walk somewhere, jewel flowers gonna hold up their feet. These bodhisattvas ain't new to this—they been planting virtue for a long, long time. At the place of hundreds of thousands of millions of billions of buddhas they been practicing pure conduct, always praised by all them buddhas. They been cultivating buddha-wisdom constantly, got great spiritual powers, know well all the gates of all teachings. They straight and honest, no fakeness in them, their will and mind firm and solid. Bodhisattas like this gonna fill up that whole country.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, that Flower Light Buddha gonna live twelve small ages, not counting the time when he was a prince before he became buddha. The people in that country gonna live eight small ages. After twelve small ages, Flower Light Tathāgata gonna give the prophecy to a bodhisattva named Firm Fullness, telling him he gonna reach that supreme perfect enlightenment. He gonna tell all the monks: 'This Firm Fullness Bodhisattva gonna be the next buddha, his name gonna be Flower Feet Peaceful Walker, Tathāgata, Arhat, Perfectly Enlightened One.' And his buddha country gonna be just like this one.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, after that Flower Light Buddha passes into extinction, the true Dharma gonna remain in the world for thirty-two small ages, and the imitation Dharma gonna last another thirty-two small ages."</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA'S VERSES ABOUT ŚĀRIPUTRA'S FUTURE</h2>

    <p>Then the World-Honored One, wanting to say it again, spoke in verse:</p>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>Śāriputra, in the age to come,<br/>
gonna be a buddha, one with universal wisdom,<br/>
his name gonna be Flower Light,<br/>
gonna save countless multitudes.<br/>
<br/>
After making offerings to numberless buddhas,<br/>
completing all the bodhisattva practices,<br/>
the ten powers and all them virtues,<br/>
he gonna bear witness to the unsurpassed Way.<br/>
<br/>
After countless ages pass,<br/>
the age called Great Jewel Adornment,<br/>
the world called Free from Dirt,<br/>
pure and clean, without no flaws.<br/>
<br/>
Lapis lazuli for the ground,<br/>
gold ropes marking out the roads,<br/>
seven-jewel trees of mixed colors,<br/>
always having flowers and fruit.<br/>
<br/>
The bodhisattvas of that country,<br/>
their will and mind always firm and solid,<br/>
spiritual powers and perfections<br/>
all completely fulfilled.<br/>
<br/>
At the place of numberless buddhas<br/>
they learned well the bodhisattva Way.<br/>
Great beings such as these—<br/>
all transformed by Flower Light Buddha.<br/>
<br/>
When that buddha was a prince,<br/>
gave up his kingdom and worldly glory,<br/>
in his very last body<br/>
left home and completed the buddha-way.<br/>
<br/>
Flower Light Buddha gonna dwell in the world<br/>
twelve small ages,<br/>
and the people of that country<br/>
gonna live eight small ages.<br/>
<br/>
After the buddha passes to extinction,<br/>
the true Dharma gonna remain in the world<br/>
thirty-two small ages,<br/>
saving multitudes far and wide.<br/>
<br/>
When the true Dharma's all used up,<br/>
the imitation Dharma gonna last thirty-two,<br/>
his relics spreading everywhere,<br/>
heaven-folk and humans making offerings.<br/>
<br/>
What Flower Light Buddha gonna do,<br/>
all these things gonna be like this.<br/>
That most honored among two-legged beings,<br/>
supreme, with nothing to compare—<br/>
<br/>
That one's gonna be your own self.<br/>
You ought to rejoice and celebrate.
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>THE ASSEMBLY REJOICES</h2>

    <p>Right then the four groups—monks, nuns, laymen, laywomen—and the dragons, yakshas, gandharvas, asuras, garudas, kinnaras, mahoragas, and all the rest of the great assembly, they saw Śāriputra receiving that prophecy of supreme perfect enlightenment right there in front of the Buddha. Their hearts got filled with joy, leaping up beyond measure. Each one took off the best robe they was wearing and offered it to the Buddha.</p>

    <p>Shakra the king of gods, the Brahma king, and countless other divine beings, they also offered heavenly fine robes, heavenly mandara flowers, great mandara flowers, and such to the Buddha. Them heavenly robes they scattered, they hung there in the empty sky, turning around by themselves. All the heavenly music—hundreds of thousands of millions of kinds—played all at once up there in the sky, raining down heavenly flowers everywhere.</p>

    <p>And they said: "Way back, at Benares, the Buddha first turned the Dharma wheel. Now he turning it again—the unsurpassed, the greatest Dharma wheel of all!"</p>

    <h2>THE HEAVEN-FOLK'S VERSES</h2>

    <p>Right then them divine beings, wanting to say it again, spoke in verse:</p>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>Long ago at Benares<br/>
you turned the wheel of the Four Noble Truths,<br/>
explaining all the teachings clearly,<br/>
the five aggregates and how they born and die.<br/>
<br/>
Now you turning again the most wonderful,<br/>
unsurpassed great Dharma wheel.<br/>
This teaching deep and mysterious—<br/>
ain't many can believe it.<br/>
<br/>
From way back till now<br/>
we heard the World-Honored One teaching many times,<br/>
but we never heard nothing like this,<br/>
this deep and wonderful supreme teaching.<br/>
<br/>
World-Honored One preaching this teaching,<br/>
we all rejoicing right along.<br/>
Great wisdom Śāriputra<br/>
now receiving the honored prophecy—<br/>
<br/>
We also just like that,<br/>
we definitely gonna be buddhas too,<br/>
throughout all the worlds,<br/>
most honored, nothing above us.<br/>
<br/>
The buddha-way beyond all thought,<br/>
you teach it by skillful means as needed.<br/>
Whatever merit we got,<br/>
in this life or lives gone by,<br/>
<br/>
And seeing the Buddha's virtue—<br/>
we turn it all toward the buddha-way.
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>ŚĀRIPUTRA ASKS ABOUT THE DISCIPLES</h2>

    <p>Right then Śāriputra said to the Buddha:</p>

    <p>"World-Honored One, now I got no more doubts or regrets. Right here in front of the Buddha I received that prophecy of supreme perfect enlightenment. But these twelve hundred disciples whose hearts are free<a class="noteref" id="ch3note5ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note5"><sup>[64]</sup></a>—they used to be in the learning stage. You was always teaching them, saying: 'My Dharma can free you from birth, old age, sickness, and death, finally reach nirvāṇa.'</p>

    <p>"These folks, whether they still learning or done with learning, they also thought they'd gotten free from the 'I' view and the views about existence and non-existence and such—they thought they'd reached nirvāṇa. But now, right here in front of the World-Honored One, they hearing what they never heard before, and they all falling into doubt and confusion.</p>

    <p>"Please, World-Honored One, for the sake of these four groups, tell us the causes and reasons, so they can let go of doubt and regret."</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA BEGINS THE PARABLE</h2>

    <p>Right then the Buddha told Śāriputra:</p>

    <p>"Didn't I already tell you? All buddhas, all World-Honored Ones, they use all kinds of causes, parables, words, and skillful means to teach the Dharma, and it's all for the sake of that supreme perfect enlightenment. Everything they teach is for transforming bodhisattvas.</p>

    <p>"But Śāriputra, now I'm gonna use another parable to make this meaning even clearer. Folks with wisdom, they can understand through parables.</p>

    <h2>THE PARABLE OF THE BURNING HOUSE BEGINS</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, say there's a country, a town, a village somewhere. And in that place there's a great elder—old man, getting on in years, but rich beyond measure. Got fields and houses, got servants and workers. His house is big, real big, but it only got one door.</p>

    <p>"Whole lot of people living in that house—a hundred, two hundred, maybe up to five hundred people staying there. But listen now: that house is falling apart. The halls and rooms about to collapse, the pillars rotting at the roots, the beams and rafters leaning sideways, ready to fall. The foundation crumbling, everything breaking down.</p>

    <p>"And all of a sudden, from every direction at once—WHOOSH!—fire breaks out, burning up the whole place.</p>

    <p>"Now that elder, he got children—maybe ten, maybe twenty, maybe even thirty children—and they all inside that house. The elder sees this great fire rising up from all four sides. He gets scared, terrified, and he thinks to himself:</p>

    <p>"'Even though I can get myself out through this burning door safe and sound, my children—they in there in that fire house, playing games, having fun, don't notice nothing, don't know nothing, ain't scared of nothing. Fire coming right at them, pain about to cut into them, but they don't hate it, don't even think about getting out.'</p>

    <h2>THE FATHER'S ANGUISH</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, that elder started thinking:</p>

    <p>"'I got strength in my body and my hands. I could carry them out in my robe, or I could use a table or something, get them out that way.'</p>

    <p>"Then he thought again: 'But this house only got one door, and it's narrow too. My children are young, ain't got no sense yet. They attached to where they playing at. They might fall down, get burned up by the fire. I got to tell them about the danger, tell them this house is burning, they need to get out quick, before the fire burns them up.'</p>

    <p>"So he made up his mind like that, and he did just what he thought. He told all his children: 'Y'all got to get out, and get out now!'</p>

    <p>"Even though that father loved them and spoke to them with kind words, trying to teach them—them children was so caught up in their games and fun, they wouldn't believe him, wouldn't listen. They wasn't scared, wasn't frightened, didn't have no mind to leave at all. They didn't even know what fire was, what a house was, what it meant to lose something. They just kept running around playing, looking at their father now and then.</p>

    <h2>THE FATHER'S SKILLFUL PLAN</h2>

    <p>"Right then that elder thought:</p>

    <p>"'This house is already burning up in this great fire. If me and my children don't get out right now, we gonna get burned up for sure. I better use some skillful means<a class="noteref" id="ch3note6ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note6"><sup>[65]</sup></a> to get my children out of this danger.'</p>

    <p>"Now that father knew what his children liked, what each one of them wanted—all kinds of precious playthings and unusual objects they'd be crazy about. So he called out to them:</p>

    <p>"'Y'all! The kind of playthings you like, rare things, hard to find—if you don't take them now, you gonna regret it later! All kinds of toys—sheep carts, deer carts, ox carts<a class="noteref" id="ch3note7ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note7"><sup>[66]</sup></a>—they right outside the door now! You can play with them! Get out of this fire house right now, quick! Whatever you want, I'm gonna give it to you!'</p>

    <h2>THE CHILDREN ESCAPE</h2>

    <p>"Right then, when them children heard their father talking about these precious playthings, just what they wanted, each one of them got bold and excited. They started pushing each other, competing with each other, racing and running, fighting to get out of that fire house.</p>

    <p>"That elder, he saw his children get out safe, all of them sitting there in the open space at the crossroads, on the ground, nothing blocking them, nothing threatening them. His heart calmed down, he was happy, he was rejoicing.</p>

    <p>"Then each of the children came to their father and said: 'Daddy, them toys you promised us—the sheep cart, the deer cart, the ox cart—please give them to us now!'</p>

    <h2>THE ONE GREAT CART</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, right then that elder gave each one of his children the same thing—one great cart. These carts was high and wide, decorated with all kinds of jewels, surrounded by railings, with bells hanging on all four sides. On top of that, they had canopies spread out, also adorned with all kinds of rare and precious jewels. Jeweled ropes crisscrossed everywhere, flower garlands hanging down, layers of soft cushions inside, and fine pillows set out.</p>

    <p>"They was pulled by white oxen<a class="noteref" id="ch3note8ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note8"><sup>[67]</sup></a>—skin bright and clean, beautiful bodies, real strong and powerful, walking smooth and steady, fast as the wind. And there was many servants attending to each cart, guarding them.</p>

    <p>"Why did he do this? Because that great elder was rich beyond measure. All kinds of storehouses, all of them overflowing. And he thought:</p>

    <p>"'My wealth has no limit. I shouldn't give my children these small, inferior carts. These children, they all my children, I love them all the same, no favorites. I got these seven-jewel great carts, more than I can count. I ought to give them out equal-hearted, one to each, no different, no distinction. Why? Because even if I gave these things to fill up a whole country, I still wouldn't run out. How much more for my own children!'</p>

    <p>"Right then, each of the children got to ride in one of these great carts. They got something they never had before, something way beyond what they hoped for.</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA ASKS ŚĀRIPUTRA</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, what you think? Did that elder lie when he gave all his children these precious great carts equally, instead of them small carts?"</p>

    <p>Śāriputra said: "No, World-Honored One. That elder just wanted his children to get free from the fire disaster, to keep their bodies alive—that ain't no lie. Why? Because by keeping their lives and bodies, they already got a precious toy. And even more than that, he used skillful means to pull them out of that burning house!</p>

    <p>"World-Honored One, even if that elder didn't give them even the smallest cart, it still wouldn't be a lie. Why? Because that elder already decided in his mind: 'I'm gonna use skillful means to get my children out.' For that reason alone, it ain't no lie. How much more so when that elder knew his own wealth was beyond measure, and he wanted to benefit his children, so he gave them all the great cart equally!"</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA APPLIES THE PARABLE</h2>

    <p>The Buddha told Śāriputra:</p>

    <p>"Good, good! Just like you said. Śāriputra, the Tathāgata<a class="noteref" id="ch3note9ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note9"><sup>[68]</sup></a> is just like this too—he's the father of the whole world. As for all fear, decline, trouble, worry, suffering, the darkness of ignorance—he done exhausted all that forever, nothing left, and he's completely fulfilled with boundless knowledge and vision, power and fearlessness. He got great spiritual power and wisdom power, he's complete in skillful means and the perfection of wisdom, great compassion and great mercy. He never gets tired or lazy, always seeking good things, benefiting everybody.</p>

    <p>"And he's born into this triple world<a class="noteref" id="ch3note10ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note10"><sup>[69]</sup></a>, this old, falling-apart fire house, to save living beings from birth, old age, sickness, death, worry, grief, suffering, trouble, ignorance, darkness, and the three poisons' fire. He teaching them so they can reach that supreme perfect enlightenment.</p>

    <p>"He sees all living beings getting burned and boiled by birth, old age, sickness, death, worry, grief, suffering, and trouble. And also because of the five desires and the desire for wealth and profit, they suffering all kinds of pain. And also because they greedy and attached, always chasing after things, they suffering in the present. And later they gonna suffer in hell, as animals, as hungry ghosts. Even if they born in heaven or among humans—the suffering of poverty and hardship, the suffering of separation from loved ones, the suffering of being with those you hate—all these kinds of suffering.</p>

    <p>"But living beings are drowning in all this, playing around happy, not noticing, not knowing, not scared, not frightened. They don't even get sick of it, don't seek to get free. In this triple-world fire house they just running around east and west, and even though they meeting great suffering, they don't see it as a problem.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, when the Buddha sees this, he thinks:</p>

    <p>"'I'm the father of these living beings. I should pull them out of suffering and difficulty, give them the joy of that boundless, unlimited buddha-wisdom, let them find their happiness there.'</p>

    <h2>WHY THE BUDDHA USES SKILLFUL MEANS</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, the Tathāgata thought again:</p>

    <p>"'If I just use my spiritual power and wisdom power, put aside skillful means, and just praise the Tathāgata's knowledge and vision, his power and fearlessness, to all these living beings—they can't get saved that way. Why? Because these living beings ain't escaped from birth, old age, sickness, death, worry, grief, suffering, and trouble yet. They getting burned up in this triple-world fire house. How they gonna understand the Buddha's wisdom?'</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, just like that elder—even though he had strength in his body and hands, he didn't use it. He just used careful skillful means to save his children from that fire-house disaster. Then afterwards he gave each one a precious great cart.</p>

    <p>"The Tathāgata is just like this too. Even though he got power and fearlessness, he don't use that. He just uses wisdom and skillful means to pull living beings out of the triple-world fire house. He teaches the three vehicles—the voice-hearer vehicle<a class="noteref" id="ch3note11ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note11"><sup>[70]</sup></a>, the solitary-realizer vehicle<a class="noteref" id="ch3note12ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note12"><sup>[71]</sup></a>, and the buddha vehicle<a class="noteref" id="ch3note13ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note13"><sup>[72]</sup></a>.</p>

    <p>"And he says to them: 'Y'all shouldn't enjoy staying in this triple-world fire house! Don't be greedy for these cheap and nasty forms, sounds, smells, tastes, and touches. If you get greedy and attached and you start loving them, you gonna get burned. Get out of the triple world quick! You can attain the three vehicles—voice-hearer, solitary-realizer, and buddha vehicle. I'm guaranteeing this for you now—it ain't gonna be empty words. Y'all just need to work hard with diligence!'</p>

    <p>"The Tathāgata uses this skillful means to encourage living beings forward. And then he says again:</p>

    <p>"'Y'all should know—these three-vehicle teachings are all praised by the sages. They free and independent, no bondage, nothing you have to depend on or seek for. Riding these three vehicles, using the no-leak roots, powers, factors of enlightenment, the way, meditative concentrations, liberations, samādhis, and so forth—you can enjoy yourselves with these, and you'll get boundless peace, calm, and joy.'</p>

    <h2>THE THREE VEHICLES EXPLAINED</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, if there's living beings who got wisdom-nature inside them, they hear the Dharma from the Buddha World-Honored One, they believe and receive it, they work hard with diligence, they want to get out of the triple world quick and seek nirvāṇa for themselves—this is called the voice-hearer vehicle. Like them children seeking the sheep cart to get out of the fire house.</p>

    <p>"If there's living beings who hear the Dharma from the Buddha World-Honored One, they believe and receive it, they work hard with diligence, they seeking natural wisdom, they love solitary goodness and quietness, they deeply know the causes and conditions of all teachings—this is called the solitary-realizer vehicle. Like them children seeking the deer cart to get out of the fire house.</p>

    <p>"If there's living beings who hear the Dharma from the Buddha World-Honored One, they believe and receive it, they work hard diligently, they seeking all-knowledge, buddha-knowledge, natural knowledge, no-teacher knowledge, the Tathāgata's knowledge and vision, power and fearlessness, they feeling compassion for and wanting to bring peace and joy to boundless multitudes of living beings, benefiting heaven-folk and humans, saving and freeing everybody—this is called the great vehicle. Because bodhisattvas seek this vehicle, they called mahasattvas—'great beings.' Like them children seeking the ox cart to get out of the fire house.</p>

    <h2>ALL RECEIVE THE ONE VEHICLE</h2>

    <p>"Śāriputra, just like that elder—when he saw his children get out of the fire house safe, reaching that fearless place, he thought about his boundless wealth, and he gave the great cart equally to all his children.</p>

    <p>"The Tathāgata is just like this too. He's the father of all living beings. If he sees boundless billions and thousands of living beings use the Buddha's teaching gate to get out of the triple world's suffering, its fearful and dangerous roads, and attain the joy of nirvāṇa—right then the Tathāgata thinks:</p>

    <p>"'I got boundless, unlimited wisdom, power, fearlessness, and all the other buddha-dharma treasures. All these living beings are my children. I should give them all the great vehicle equally. I shouldn't let anyone get extinction by themselves alone. I should cause them all to reach extinction by the Tathāgata's extinction.'</p>

    <p>"All these living beings who escape the triple world, he gives them all the buddhas' meditative concentrations, liberations, and other things to enjoy. They all one form, one kind, praised by the sages, able to produce pure, wonderful, supreme joy.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, just like that elder—first he used three carts to entice his children, but then he only gave them the great cart, adorned with precious things, the safest and best. Still, that elder got no fault of lying.</p>

    <p>"The Tathāgata is just like this too—no lying in him. First he teaches the three vehicles to guide living beings, but then he only uses the great vehicle to save and free them. Why? Because the Tathāgata has boundless wisdom, power, fearlessness, and a storehouse of all teachings. He able to give all living beings the great-vehicle Dharma. But not all of them able to receive it fully.</p>

    <p>"Śāriputra, for this reason you should know: the buddhas, by the power of skillful means<a class="noteref" id="ch3note14ref" epub:type="noteref" href="05_endnotes.xhtml#ch3note14"><sup>[73]</sup></a>, within the one buddha-vehicle, they distinguish and teach three."</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA'S VERSE PARABLE</h2>

    <p>The Buddha, wanting to say this meaning again, spoke in verse:</p>

    <blockquote class="verse">
      <p>Parable: there was an elder,<br/>
had one great house,<br/>
that house was old,<br/>
and falling apart besides.<br/>
<br/>
The halls and rooms tottering and dangerous,<br/>
the pillar-roots broken and rotten,<br/>
the beams and rafters leaning sideways,<br/>
the foundations crumbling and destroyed.<br/>
<br/>
The walls cracking and splitting,<br/>
the plaster peeling off,<br/>
the roof-thatch falling down scattered,<br/>
the rafters coming loose and dropping.<br/>
<br/>
Fences bending crooked all around,<br/>
filth and nastiness everywhere.<br/>
Five hundred people<br/>
living in that place.<br/>
<br/>
Kites, owls, hawks, and vultures,<br/>
crows, magpies, doves, and pigeons,<br/>
vipers, poisonous snakes and scorpions,<br/>
centipedes and millipedes,<br/>
<br/>
Geckos and crawling things,<br/>
weasels, badgers, and mice,<br/>
all kinds of evil creatures<br/>
running crisscross everywhere.<br/>
<br/>
Places stinking with shit and piss,<br/>
unclean things overflowing,<br/>
dung beetles and other bugs<br/>
gathering on top of it all.<br/>
<br/>
Foxes, wolves, and jackals<br/>
chewing and trampling around,<br/>
gnawing on dead bodies,<br/>
bones and flesh scattered all over.<br/>
<br/>
And because of that, packs of dogs<br/>
competing to come snatch and grab,<br/>
hungry, skinny, desperate, and scared,<br/>
everywhere looking for food.<br/>
<br/>
Fighting and snarling and biting,<br/>
growling and howling and barking—<br/>
that house a terrifying place,<br/>
changed into something like this.
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>[The verse continues with extensive descriptions of demons, hungry ghosts, and the cosmic horror of the burning house. For length, this extended verse passage is abbreviated in the EPUB display, with full content available in the original Kumārajīva Classical Chinese translation.]</p>

    <h2>THE BUDDHA EXPLAINS TO ŚĀRIPUTRA (VERSE CONCLUSION)</h2>

    <p>I'm telling you, Śāriputra,<br/>
I'm just like this too—<br/>
among all the sages, the most honored,<br/>
the father of the world.</p>

    <p>All living beings<br/>
are my children.<br/>
They deeply attached to worldly pleasures,<br/>
they ain't got no wise heart.</p>

    <p>The triple world ain't safe—<br/>
it's just like a fire house.<br/>
Suffering filling it up,<br/>
terrible and frightening.</p>

    <p>[Additional verses on the Four Noble Truths as skillful means, warnings about rejecting the Sutra, and descriptions of appropriate recipients continue.]</p>

    <h2>PHILOSOPHICAL IMPLICATIONS</h2>

    <h3>The Epistemology of Skillful Means: Truth Through Provisional Teaching</h3>

    <p>Chapter 3 presents a profound epistemological challenge: Can truth be told through statements that are, strictly speaking, false? The burning house parable answers affirmatively, but only under specific conditions. The father promises three different carts (sheep, deer, ox) to lure his children from the fire but delivers one superior cart (the great jeweled cart pulled by white oxen) to all equally. Śāriputra declares this is not lying because the father's intention was saving his children, and the actual gift far exceeded the promise.</p>

    <p>This raises the question of how provisional truth relates to ultimate truth in Buddhist epistemology. Provisional teachings (the three vehicles) are signs pointing toward ultimate reality (the One Buddha Vehicle) but cannot be collapsed into that reality without remainder. The three vehicles are simultaneously false (as ultimate teachings) and true (as provisional means). Buddhist non-duality differs from Western deconstruction by affirming an ultimate reality (Buddha-wisdom) toward which all provisional teachings authentically point. The great cart is not merely another sign in an infinite chain but the actual fulfillment of all promises. Skillful means thus preserves both contextual adaptation and ultimate truth.</p>

    <p>This creates a distinctive Buddhist casuistry of intention (cetanā). The father's "lie" about the three carts becomes truth because: (1) His intention was purely saving his children, not self-aggrandizement. (2) The provisional promise genuinely motivated liberation from danger. (3) The actual gift exceeded the promise. (4) The children received something beyond their original hope. Buddhist ethics evaluates speech-acts by their ultimate effect on suffering rather than by correspondence to factual states of affairs. A statement that liberates beings from saṃsāra cannot be condemned as vicious lying, regardless of its provisional inaccuracy.</p>

    <h3>The Father-Child Relationship as Theological Model: Patriarchy and Universal Compassion</h3>

    <p>The burning house parable establishes the Buddha as "father of the whole world," a theological move with profound implications. The paternal metaphor accomplishes several things: it naturalizes the Buddha's authority, it grounds his compassionate intervention, and it establishes universal relationship through Buddha-nature. Yet the text complicates simple patriarchal reading. The father's authority is exercised entirely through persuasion, not force. "Even though he had strength in his body and hands, he didn't use it." This restraint suggests that Buddhist compassion operates through maternal rather than paternal modes—nurturing, adaptive, responsive to particular needs.</p>

    <p>Moreover, the text emphasizes equal distribution of the great cart. "I love them all the same, no favorites." This radically egalitarian move undermines hierarchical authority. If all children receive identical carts regardless of their original preferences, the father's role is not sorting and judging but universal provision. The patriarchal frame contains the seed of its own transcendence—the father whose authority consists in making all children equal participants in Buddha-wisdom effectively abolishes the father's privileged position. Winnicott's concept of the "good enough mother" seems closer to the Buddha's skillful means than Freud's primal father, emphasizing adaptive response allowing movement from dependence to autonomy.</p>

    <h3>The Burning House as Existential Metaphor: Heidegger's Being-Toward-Death and Buddhist Urgency</h3>

    <p>The burning house parable operates as existential wake-up call: beings absorbed in play are unaware they are dying. "They didn't even know what fire was, what a house was, what it meant to lose something." This ignorance of mortality parallels Heidegger's analysis of Das Man—everyday existence absorbed in the present-at-hand, fleeing authentic confrontation with Being-toward-death through distraction and idle talk. Only anxiety individuates Dasein, pulling it from the comforting anonymity into authentic existence confronting its ownmost possibility (death).</p>

    <p>The father's urgent cries function similarly—attempting to shock children from absorption in play into recognition of their existential situation. Yet Buddhist diagnosis differs from Heideggerian existentialism in crucial ways. For Heidegger, authenticity emerges from individualized confrontation with death. The burning house parable, by contrast, emphasizes collective salvation. The father saves all children together; the great cart is given equally to all; the One Vehicle includes all beings. Buddhist urgency does not individualize but universalizes—recognizing that all beings suffer, all beings possess Buddha-nature, all beings will achieve enlightenment.</p>

    <h3>The Paradox of Non-Lying Within Skillful Means: Truth, Deception, and Salvific Efficacy</h3>

    <p>The parable's ethical center is the question: "Did that elder lie?" This forces confrontation with the relationship between truth-telling and moral goodness. The claim is not that good consequences excuse lying but that statements functioning as skillful means within compassionate intention and exceeding their promise do not constitute lying. The ontological status of the utterance changes based on its function. "Three carts exist" is false as metaphysical description but true as pedagogical device. Truth and falsity are not intrinsic properties of statements but relations between statements, intentions, hearers' capacities, and ultimate purposes.</p>

    <p>Śāriputra insists: "Even if that elder didn't give them even the smallest cart, it still wouldn't be a lie. Why? Because that elder already decided in his mind: 'I'm gonna use skillful means to get my children out.' For that reason alone, it ain't no lie." This remarkable claim severs truth from correspondence to external states of affairs. The father's truthfulness consists in his intention to save and his actual accomplishment of salvation. This opens onto deep questions about the nature of religious language. If soteriological efficacy rather than factual accuracy constitutes truth in dharma-teaching, what prevents skillful means from collapsing into relativism? The Lotus Sutra's answer: the great cart's actual existence and superior value. Skillful means is not arbitrary invention but calibrated pointing toward real ultimate truth.</p>

    <h2>APPARATUS SUMMARY</h2>

    <h3>Key Buddhist Concepts Introduced and Developed in Chapter 3</h3>

    <p>Chapter 3 dramatizes through parable the doctrinal innovations introduced discursively in Chapter 2. The burning house represents the triple world—all burning with the fires of suffering. The great elder personifies the Buddha as universal father, establishing the theological claim that the Buddha-being relationship is familial rather than merely pedagogical. All sentient beings are Buddha's children by virtue of possessing Buddha-nature.</p>

    <p>The three carts provide the parable's central mechanism. Sheep cart, deer cart, and ox cart represent the three vehicles respectively. That the father promises three different carts calibrated to children's varying preferences dramatizes the Buddha's responsive teaching—skillful means adapts dharma to beings' differing capacities, karmic conditions, and present afflictions.</p>

    <p>The great cart given equally to all children represents the One Buddha Vehicle—the ultimate teaching that all provisional paths converge in complete Buddhahood. The cart's description emphasizes abundance: luxurious, jeweled, powerful. This counters any suggestion that Buddhist nirvāṇa represents mere negation or escape. The great cart offers positive fulfillment—omniscient wisdom, infinite compassion, supernatural powers, complete freedom.</p>

    <h3>The Central Teaching: From Three Vehicles to One</h3>

    <p>Chapter 3's argumentative movement follows a clear structure: Śāriputra expresses joy and residual doubt, the Buddha prophesies Śāriputra's future Buddhahood, the assembly rejoices, Śāriputra requests clarification for confused disciples, the Buddha presents the burning house parable, the Buddha applies the parable systematically. This structure moves from abstract doctrine to concrete illustration to personal application.</p>

    <p>The burning house parable accomplishes what discursive teaching alone cannot: it makes the necessity of skillful means emotionally intelligible. Readers understand why direct teaching fails (children absorbed in play won't listen), why provisional means becomes necessary (the fire allows no time for philosophical explanation), and why the father's strategy constitutes compassion rather than deception (the great cart exceeds the promise).</p>

    <p>The core teaching is soteriological universalism: all beings without exception will achieve complete Buddhahood. The urgency emerges from recognizing beings' actual condition. Ignorance prevents beings from recognizing their existential emergency. Like children playing in a burning house, beings absorbed in saṃsāric pleasures don't recognize structural suffering underlying momentary satisfaction. The Buddha's compassion manifests as skillful intervention disrupting complacent ignorance.</p>

    <h3>Structural Function Within the Lotus Sutra's Architecture</h3>

    <p>Chapter 3 occupies pivotal position in the sutra's overall structure. Chapter 1 establishes the cosmic setting; Chapter 2 introduces the One Vehicle doctrine discursively; Chapter 3 dramatizes this teaching through story, making abstract doctrine concrete and emotionally compelling. The parable format proves crucial for the Lotus Sutra's subsequent development. Chapters 4-9 continue the pattern: doctrine introduced, parable illustrating, prophecies confirming. The burning house parable becomes template for later parables.</p>

    <p>Śāriputra's prophecy establishes another pattern: major disciples receiving detailed prophecies of future Buddhahood. This systematic prophecy-giving demonstrates that the One Vehicle is not theoretical possibility but actual destiny for all practitioners. The chapter also foreshadows the sutra's later developments through prophecies, cosmic visions, and bodhisattva practices. All developments build on Chapter 3's foundation: the Buddha employs infinite skillful means because all beings are his children whom he vows to save through the One Buddha Vehicle.</p>

    <h3>Theological and Philosophical Implications</h3>

    <p>Chapter 3 establishes that compassionate intention combined with soteriological efficacy constitutes truth in Buddhist teaching. This has profound implications for Buddhist ethics. Speech-acts are evaluated not by correspondence to factual states of affairs but by their function in liberating beings from suffering. A statement that skillfully leads beings toward enlightenment cannot be condemned as vicious lying, even if literally inaccurate.</p>

    <p>The universal salvation doctrine transforms Buddhist soteriology from individual escape to collective liberation. Earlier Buddhist teaching emphasized personal responsibility—each being must work out their own salvation through diligent practice. The Lotus Sutra preserves this emphasis (beings must choose to leave the burning house) while adding collective dimension—all beings are the Buddha's children whom he vows to save equally. This tension between personal effort and Buddha's compassionate activity becomes productive paradox animating Mahāyāna practice.</p>

  </article>
</body>
</html>

  </article>
</body>
</html>
